This is an invitation to explore.
When I was young, I lived in a rural community in
southeastern Wisconsin, and I spent most of my days
playing in and exploring the woods that bordered our
small neighborhood.
I remember discovering a massive ant hill in a clearing
and watching the ants march in orderly lines up and
down its slope. I remember a meadow carpeted in
vibrant green grass, and beyond that meadow there
was a graveyard of old farm machinery. An ancient
tractor and harvester bathed in sunlight, rusting out
as climbing vines overtook them, and animals nested
within.
When I was nine, we moved to Ohio. There, we
lived near a commercial center, and the houses were
densely packed, but there was also undeveloped
land nearby—fields and forests that I could explore.
In a field of tall, golden grass there was an old barn,
weather-beaten and decaying with a dramatically
sagging roof and crumbling wooden walls. My brother
and I dared to enter, and we ran for our lives when we
were chased away by the owl that lived there.
In the years that followed, the wild land on the
outskirts of our neighborhood was cleared. Farmland,

fields, and forest gave way to roads, foundations, and
drainage systems, so instead of woods, I explored
houses under construction and crawled through an
ever-expanding maze of concrete drain pipes.
Over the years, my family and I have gone on multiple
trips to the Rocky Mountains. There, while hiking,
I liked to imagine what it would be like to live in a
world where your only method of transportation was
your own two feet; where you spent your time walking
between settlements nestled in picturesque locations,
the spaces between nothing but forests, rock
formations, and breathtaking views across verdant
river valleys. What if, I would wonder, this walk
through the mountains was my daily commute? How
different would I be because of it? I imagined how
much would have to change to make that possible.
Earthborne Rangers is our attempt to bring the
excitement of exploration and discovery to life in a
card game.
This is an invitation to explore, to be inspired, and to
see this fictional world as if it were real, as if it truly
exists just beyond the horizon of the present.
We hope you enjoy the experience.
Much love,

TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Earthborne Setting.................................................................................... 4
Components..................................................................................................... 6
Basic Concepts................................................................................................. 7
Game Setup.................................................................................................... 10
Playing the Game............................................................................................ 12
Performing a Test............................................................................................ 16
Clearing Cards. ............................................................................................... 18
Fatigue............................................................................................................ 20
Ending the Day................................................................................................ 21
Additional Concepts. ...................................................................................... 22
Card Anatomies. ............................................................................................. 24
Keywords......................................................................................................... 26
Playing a Campaign........................................................................................ 27
Creating Your Ranger...................................................................................... 32
Ranger Backgrounds....................................................................................... 34
Ranger Specialties........................................................................................... 38
Ranger Personalities........................................................................................ 46
Index................................................................................................................ 47
Quick Reference.............................................................................................. 48

CREATED BY

Andrew Navaro: Creative Direction, Game Design,
Content Development, Graphic Design, Concept
Artwork, Fiction
Andrew Fischer: Game Design, Content
Development, Rules Writing, Playtest Coordination
Evan Simonet: Art Direction, Concept Artwork,
Illustration, Graphic Design
Adam and Brady Sadler: Original Game Design,
Content Development
Brooks Fluguar-Leavitt: Content Development
Sam Gregor-Stewart: Fiction
Joe Banner: Concept Artwork, Illustration
Cory DeVore: Graphic Design
Michael Curran-Dorsano: Fiction
Kate Cunningham: Rulebook and Campaign Guide
Proofreading
Luke Eddy: Card Proofreading

Special thanks to Adam H-B, Dan Hellige, Davi Paulino,
and all of our other playtesters:
Matthew Ansley, Damian Alonzi, Alan Ball, Kathy
Bishop, Clinton Bolinger, Taylor Bowne, Max Brooke,
Timothy Bunn, Eric Burtch, Mark Butt, AJ Cressman,
Wes Divin, Richard Edwards, Bernhard Klein, Kurt
Ericson, Michael Feldman, Seth Flagg, John Getty,
Melle Gruber, Matt Harkrader, Stefan Hestermeyer,
Michael Hillmann, Christoph Huber, Joe Kane, Ryan
Kim, Brian Mazurowski, Joachim Meyer, Raymond
Micheau, Aaron Most, Mario Niesgodda, Bryan
O’Donnell, Liz Pech, Steven Petersen, Samantha Thi
Porter, Syl Puglisi, Christopher Pütz, Carolina Reid, Zap
Riecken, Glen Saward, Dan Sawade, Brett Schofield,
Ben Schönheiter, Dominik Schönleben, Derek Schultz,
Ian Shaffer, Kyle Stark, Veronica, Markus Volk, and Eric
Wainright.
Extra special thanks to all of our Kickstarter backers
and our business partners.
Extra, extra special thanks to our loved ones.

3

EXCERPT FROM NOTES ON THE HISTORY OF
THE THIRD AND FOURTH MILLENNIA
Composed by Lorelord of the Second Council Tishala
Saidik. 3rd Cycle, 8433 LR
Twenty-five hundred years ago, the world balanced
on the brink of destruction. The Great Calamities
threatened to leave our world a blasted wasteland, but
in the face of certain death, people did the one thing
nobody expected: they pulled together.
Led by a figure known only as The Guide,* the
disparate peoples of Earth began to heal their
grievously wounded planet. To do so, they began the
Great Generational Projects.
These projects were monumental feats of engineering,
practical biology, and chemistry (to name but a few
disciplines), requiring decades of work from millions
of people; in short, the greatest undertakings in
all of human history. They filled the Messipian Sea;
unfurled the Lagrangian Shade to cool the Earth;
built the towering carbon stacks; and carefully bred
the kilometers-long beasts known as terravores that
still slowly crawl across the land, consuming centuries
worth of refuse. They did all this and much more.
These projects were aptly named. The simplest took
decades to complete, while the greatest could only be
completed over centuries of labor.

4

They knew it would take a thousand years or more
for our world to heal, so our ancestors built great
arcologies to shelter themselves from the ravages of

a worsening climate. They retreated to their massive,
enclosed cities to wait out the storm of storms, so
that their descendants may one day walk freely upon
the Earth.
It worked. The Earth healed, and although the land had
undergone great change, the planet reached a new
equilibrium. By this time, the mechanisms that sustained
the arcologies began to fail, and our ancestors were
compelled to venture forth into a world untouched by
human hands for more than a thousand years.
The ancestors who left the arcologies at this time were
quantifiably more introspective and aware than those
who founded them. The countless cultures that had
evolved in the past millennia (and would evolve in the
millennia to come) agreed on one thing: the health
of the Earth, the Well-Spring of All Life, could not be
risked again. The societies that eventually resettled
our planet are wildly diverse, but they all share a sense
of mindfulness and a drive to live in harmony with the
natural world instead of apart from it or above it. Some
have eschewed all of the technological expertise of
our ancestors while others (among whose number we
Lorelords are counted) try to find a balance, entwining
the triumphs of the world that came before with the
world we live in today.
The world we live in today is very different than
the Earth of two millennia past. The spectacular
ruins of the great machines of the Generational
Projects still dot the landscape, and they stand as a
testament to the ingenuity of our ancestors. Some

*The identity and true nature of The Guide eludes us to this day. The Guide seems to appear from the aether in 6202 LR, and then simply disappears from
recorded history as our ancestors focused on the task at hand.

of those machines still function, operating to some
unknowable purpose, best left undisturbed. Any
mountain or ridge may hide the cavernous halls of an
abandoned arcology within. And while our ancestors
would recognize some of the creatures that populate
this world, they would find others marvelously
strange—the fruits of genetic crafting as our ancestors
attempted to prevent mass extinctions and breed new
species to fill abandoned roles.
The geography of the Earth itself has changed. New
seas fill the broad expanses of river plains, mountains
have risen and crumbled, and climates have shifted
across the globe.
Our ancestors gave us a gift of incomparable
significance when they rescued humankind from
extinction. Now this new world is ours to embrace.

PERSONAL CORRESPONDENCE
Composed by Ren Kobo, Master of Commerce, Ninth
Skiff of Sunray Flotilla. Spring, 4441 CR
I write, my dear sunfish, to tell you of the Valley in
the hopes that you may be tempted to join me in my
pilgrimage next season.
The Valley isn’t a valley so much as a lot of valleys, and
fields, and forests, encircled by mountains. It stretches
from these highland meadows in the north, all the way
down to the edge of the southern range where the
mouth of the Valley opens to the Verdessa. There’s a
waterfall there so tall and beautiful it’ll take your breath
away. The Valley’s sheltered by mountains on three
sides and the widest and deepest jungle you’ll ever see
on the fourth.

homes are built into the canopy and around the trunks
of the dolewood trees. You could walk through the
forest for days and never realize there were people
above your head. It’s something else. The shapers who
bent the fiber of the trees there are true luminaries.
At the far southern end of the Valley, the land drops
off in a series of cliffs down to the Great Basin and
the Verdessa beyond. There are people who live at
the edge of the falls. Tumbledown, they call it. The
people there stand watch over the Verdessa, while the
Verdessians, I’m told, stand watch over them.
And, of course, there’s the monastery, way up in the
mountains to the east. I have yet to travel there, and
I may never will. The Floating Tower is for those who
want to follow the shaper’s path, and they prefer a
certain amount of solitude for their studies.
The crown jewel, though, is Lone Tree Station, where
the Valley’s Rangers live and work—a tree that is nearly
the size of a mountain, festooned with domiciles,
research facilities, meditation chambers, and more. The
Rangers keep the Valley safe, looking out for trouble
and helping people wherever they can. They are
wonderful human beings.
I truly love the Valley, which is why I travel here after
every thaw. The trading is also quite good, as you
know. I will see you when I return to the flotilla. I can’t
wait to show you what I’ve bartered for this season.
					 –Yours, R.K.

EXCERPT FROM THE VALLEY, A SIMPLE
RECORD
Composed by Elder Grell. Winter, 3874 CR

The ancestors of the Valley Dwellers found their way
here by way of the Bitter Pass. They journeyed west to
White Sky Lake, then followed the Silverfin River down
until they came to a mounded, green island. They
were drawn there by the biggest spike of nanoforged
carbon I’ve ever seen, so tall it can scrape the clouds
on a stormy day. The people decided to settle there,
or rather, the land invited them to settle there, so they
did. They call the village Spire.

The Valley is a secluded location in what were once
called the Colorado Rockies, but more recently known
as the Estian Mountains or the Terminus of the Barrier
Mountain Range. North of the Valley, freezing streams
pour out of the mountains in frothing cascades. The
streams flow through the rocky, windswept prairies
before merging into small rivers and flowing into
White Sky Lake, which dominates the northern edge of
the Valley.

In the last hundred years they’ve spread out and
welcomed more than a few travelers (such as myself)
from afar. Spire’s the center of civilization in the Valley,
but there’s also White Sky, the fishing village perched
in the middle of the water on the southern end of the
lake. The fresh, seared lake fish they serve there every
waning gibbous is amazing.

From White Sky Lake, the water forms into the Silverfin
River, which flows the rest of the length of the Valley.
More streams and smaller rivers drain into the Silverfin,
keeping it deep and broad enough to support small
boats and rafts along its length.

Farther south, the Valley opens up into grassland and
forest. You’ll find more settlements down there if you
stick to the path. Meadow is a herding community,
mostly rearing ironwool sheep and stilt horses. Branch
is tucked into the deeper woodlands; in fact, their

The Silverfin remains navigable until it reaches
the mouth of the Valley, where treacherous rapids
announce a towering waterfall. Here the Valley’s floor
becomes a series of steep drops and sheer cliffs before
opening out onto a deep basin that feeds the jungle
far below.

5

COMPONENTS

44 Energy
Tokens

16 Harm
Tokens

16 Progress
Tokens

12 General
Tokens

RANGER CARD SETS (278 CARDS)

CARD SETS

Artificer (26)
Artisan (18)
Conciliator (26)
Explorer (26)
Forager (18)
Maladies (8)

All cards in Earthborne Rangers
are organized into sets. Which
set a given card belongs to is
noted along either the bottom
edge, or the bottom left, of each
card. Additionally, path card sets
are denoted by an icon in the
upper-left corner of the card.

37 Location Cards

Personalities (32)
Rewards (62)
Shaper (26)
Shepherd (18)
Traveler (18)

PATH CARD SETS (160 CARDS)

To organize your game, keep
each set together along with its
card divider.

35 Card Dividers

4 Ranger
Tokens

Branch (5)
Fractured Wall (3)
General (15)
Grassland (12)
Lakeshore (12)
Lone Tree Station (5)
Marsh of Rebirth (2)
Meadow (4)
Mountain Pass (12)
Northern Outpost (3)

Old-Growth (12)
Ravine (12)
River (12)
Spire (6)
Swamp (12)
Tumbledown (3)
Valley (14)
White Sky (4)
Woods (12)

24 Challenge Cards

4 Weather Cards

17 Mission Cards

4 Round Cards

4 Common Test Cards

12 Aspect Cards

6
Campaign Guide

Valley Map

BASIC CONCEPTS
Earthborne Rangers is about outdoor adventure, encountering nature, exploring forests and mountains, rivers
and swamps, ravines and prairies, and everything in between. It is also science fiction, so you can expect to
discover ancient ruins containing strange technology, you’ll use highly advanced devices to aid in your passage
and augment your abilities, and you’ll come across strange beings, genetically engineered by the ancestors to
preserve life on Earth.
Earthborne Rangers is designed to tell you a story—your story—and that story will change from one play-through
to the next, from one player to the next. A single game begins when you set out the cards representing your
current location on the map, and the game ends when you either run out of cards in your Ranger deck, your
Ranger suffers too many injuries, or if something in the story causes the day to end.

THE GAME
Each game session of Earthborne Rangers
is called a day, and the entire story, or
campaign, is told over many days. As you
play, you’ll track the passage of time on a
record sheet along with the notable events,
mission objectives, and rewards of your
journey. During a day, you’ll imagine yourself
walking through verdant forests teeming
with life, along placid lakes glittering with
sunlight, and up mountainsides, where
breathtaking vistas await. The campaign
guide will provide you with descriptions of
these locations and events in the story to
help spur your imagination.
Each game is broken up into rounds, in
which you and your fellow Rangers will
take turns playing cards from your hand
and interacting with cards on the table that
represent the flora, fauna, natural features,
ancient ruins, fellow travelers, and all of the
other, stranger things you’ll encounter on
your journey. Each round represents an hour
or two of the day, and how you spend that
time is up to you.
You may spend a round preparing for the
journey by meditating, equipping gear,
and listening to a bird’s song for clues as
to the whereabouts of a predator, or you
may spend a round hiking through the
wilderness, doing your best to outpace the
wolhunds dogging your steps, encouraging
you with unkindly growls to leave their
hunting ground. You may also spend a round
exploring a treetop village, speaking with
the locals, and lending aid where you can.
You do all of this by interacting with the
cards on the table and performing tests.

RANGERS
Each player takes on the
role of a Ranger, individuals
tasked with the stewardship
of the Valley as well as the
aid and protection of the
people who call it home.
Each player creates their own
custom Ranger character to
play in the game.
Your Ranger is represented
by three elements:

Aspects

Aspects are four values that represent where your
inherent strengths lie.
Each aspect has an associated type of energy token
that you receive each round based on your value in that
aspect. You spend this energy to do things in the game.

Ranger Deck

A deck of thirty cards represents everything your Ranger
is capable of: your skills, your gear, and even allies you
can call on in times of need. During play, how many cards
remain in your deck also represents how much stamina
you have to keep going for the day.

Role

Your role represents what you specialize in and what
function you serve in your group of Rangers. Your role
gives you a card that starts every game in play and
grants you a consistent, repeatable ability.

7

TESTS
Tests are shown on cards as narrative equations.
They tell you what you can attempt in the world
of the game, how to do it, and what will happen
if you succeed or fail. You’ll find tests on the gear
you equip, some on beings, features, and locations
in the environment, and four common tests found
on your reference card that you can perform
under almost any circumstance. Each test you
perform adds details to your story, and whether
you succeed or fail at those tests will determine the
tenor of that story.

THE GOLDEN RULE
Like many card games that have come before it,
Earthborne Rangers follows the “Golden Rule.”
That is, this rules document contains all of the
basic rules and procedures for the game. These
rules, however, were designed to be bent, and
even broken, by the text on the cards. If ever
a rule on a card contradicts a rule found in this
document, the rule on the card takes precedence.

THE DELIGHTFUL RULE
If you are ever unsure of how to resolve a rules
or timing conflict, you are invited to resolve it in a
manner that you feel is most beneficial to you and
your fellow Rangers. If your group cannot agree on
a resolution, the decision falls to the lead Ranger.

THE CHALLENGE DECK
When you perform a test, you will decide how
much of your available energy and other resources
you will commit to the test, representing how
much effort you are expending. The more effort
you commit, the higher your chance of success
and the better your potential results. However,
your energy and other resources are limited. You
will have to choose carefully where you commit
your effort and what risks you take.

A NOTE ON STYLE
Earthborne Rangers was designed to be
read aloud. The challenge effects, tests,
and campaign guide entries in particular
were written to create a sense of a story
being told as opposed to a game being
played. This led to labeling the zones of
play as “the surroundings,” “along the
way,” and “within reach.” Reading an
effect like “this predator moves within
reach” is more fun and evocative than
reading “place this card in front of you.”

8

Card rules text will often refer to “you.”
In these cases, the rule applies to the
person who drew or played that card, or
to the person performing that test. If you
are ever unsure as to which Ranger a rule
applies, the group decides who it affects.

The circumstances of your tests are not always entirely
under your control. There may be a loose rock in the cliff
face you’re attempting to scale, a sudden gust of wind that
throws you off balance, or a surprisingly sure handhold that
hastens your ascent. To represent unforeseen events, after
you’ve committed effort to a test, you’ll draw a card from
the challenge deck. This card modifies your effort up or
down, potentially changing the outcome of the test and
making every move a bit unpredictable.
In addition to modifying your chances of success, challenge
cards serve another very important function. On each of
them, you’ll find one of three symbols. These symbols
match those found on cards in play. After you determine
whether or not you succeed at a given test, the world
comes to life. That is, the cards in play with a symbol
matching the symbol found on the challenge card activate.
A predator may lunge at a villager, causing them to become
frightened or injured; prey animals may forage for food,
beating you to a clutch of medicinal berries; or the storm
clouds overhead may open up, drenching you with rain.
The game world will respond to each test you perform,
creating an environment that feels alive and dynamic.

THE PLAY AREA
The play area is broken up into four distinct areas:
The Surroundings: The surroundings set the stage
for the game. They contain the cards representing
the current location, the weather, and any missions
the Rangers are trying to accomplish.
Along the Way: When path cards are drawn, they
are either placed along the way or within reach of
a specific Ranger. Along the way is a common area
accessible to all Rangers at the center of the table.
Within Reach: There is a separate within
reach area in front of each player. This
area represents cards that are in the
Ranger’s immediate vicinity. When
an effect refers to within reach, it
means the area in front of the player
reading the effect.
Player Area: Each player has
their own area in front of them
that contains all of the cards
specific to their Ranger: their
role card, aspects, equipped
gear, Ranger deck, and
discard. Only that Ranger
can benefit from and use
cards in their own area.

GETTING STARTED
Before you sit down to play for the first time, do the following:
• Organize your cards by separating them into their individual sets. Each card set has a matching card set
divider. Keeping your collection organized will make gameplay and setup a breeze.
• Read this rulebook. Not everyone in your group needs to be familiar with the rules, but at least one of you
should be. Alternatively, or in addition to reading this rulebook, you can watch the “Learn to Play” videos
on our website (earthbornegames.com).
You then have a choice as to how you would like to begin your campaign:
• Experienced groups can dive right in by creating Ranger decks following the instructions on page 32 of
this book. Then go to entry 1 on page 4 of the campaign guide to begin your campaign.
• Groups with members new to Earthborne Rangers should begin by playing the Prologue. The Prologue
is a guided game session that gradually introduces basic concepts of the game while it walks you through
building you Ranger deck. To begin, go to page 2 of the campaign guide and follow the instructions there.
Once you start playing, you may find that you have questions about specific rules or mechanics. While this
rulebook covers the basics, there are other resources available as well. If you can’t find what you’re looking for in
the rulebook, we recommend that you visit the rules glossary and FAQ on our website (earthbornegames.com).

9

GAME SETUP
To set up the game, perform the following steps in order.
If you are starting a brand new campaign, go to the Getting Started section on page 9 and choose one of the
options listed there.

1 SET UP PLAYER AREAS
Place your aspect card, role card, and common test
reference card in your player area. Shuffle your Ranger
deck and place it in your player area. Place a number
of energy tokens equal to their corresponding aspect
values onto your aspect card.

2 DRAW STARTING HAND

4 SHUFFLE THE CHALLENGE DECK
Shuffle the challenge deck and place it above the
surroundings.

5 SET UP THE STARTING LOCATION
Place your current location in the surroundings. If
continuing a campaign, check the “current location”
line of your campaign tracker.

Draw six cards from your Ranger deck.
Mulligan: If you don’t like your starting hand, you can
set aside any number of cards from your hand and
draw an equivalent number of new cards. Then shuffle
the set-aside cards back into your Ranger deck.

4

3 ELECT THE LEAD RANGER
Together, choose a Ranger to be the lead Ranger. The
lead Ranger always draws the first path card at the start
of each round and makes decisions for the group if a
consensus cannot be reached.

2

10

6

5
9

1

6 SET UP THE WEATHER CARD

8 BUILD AND SHUFFLE THE PATH DECK

Find the weather card (or cards) noted below the
current day on your campaign tracker, and place it in
the surroundings to the left of the location with the
side named on the campaign tracker faceup. Read any
campaign guide entries listed above the current day.

First add all path cards from the set matching the
terrain you were traveling on at the end of the previous
day as noted on your campaign tracker. Then, if you
are at a pivotal location, add all path cards from the
set matching that location. If you are not at a pivotal
location, instead add three random cards from the
Valley set. Finally, add any other cards added by
missions in play. Shuffle those cards together and place
them above the surroundings.

7 SET UP MISSION CARDS
Find the corresponding cards for each uncompleted
mission on your campaign tracker and place them in
the surroundings to the right of the location.

8

Note: See Build the Path Deck on page 15 for a more
detailed explanation of these card and location types.

9 RESOLVE ARRIVAL SETUP

7

Read the campaign entry marked on the back of the
location card. Then perform all setup instructions on
the back of the location card. If the card calls for the
“next Ranger” to resolve an effect but each Ranger has
already resolved one, that effect is ignored.

10 FINISHING TOUCHES
Place any tokens as dictated by the cards in play, and
resolve any instructions on weather or missions labeled
“Start of Day.”

1

2

11

PLAYING THE GAME
Each session of Earthborne Rangers represents one day of your campaign and is played in rounds. There is no
limit to the number of rounds in a day. Each round is divided into four phases:
 Phase 1: Path Cards
 Phase 2: Ranger Turns
 Phase 3: Travel
 Phase 4: Refresh

PHASE 1: PATH CARDS

PHASE 2: RANGER TURNS

Each round, the Rangers spend more
time exploring the area around their
current location, discovering new
beings and features as they do.

Ranger turns are the bulk of the game. This is where you’ll be
equipping your gear, interacting with the environment around you, and
using your abilities to accomplish your goals for the day.

Starting with the lead Ranger, each
Ranger draws one path card. If
the card is marked with a number
underneath a book icon to the right
of its name, find the
corresponding entry
in the campaign
guide, and read it
aloud. Then resolve
any effects that resolve
when the card “enters play.” Fully
resolve the effects of each card before
drawing and resolving the next.
If you need to draw a path card but
the deck is empty, shuffle the path
discard to create a new path deck
from which to draw.
Each path card is marked with an
arrow to the left of its name that
indicates the area in which it should
be placed. A card with an upwardpointing arrow is placed along
the way. A card with a downwardpointing arrow is placed within reach
of the Ranger who drew it.

Along the way

During this phase, each Ranger takes separate turns. There is no limit
to the number of turns a Ranger can take each round. You decide as a
group which Ranger takes the first turn, and following that, Rangers can
take their turns in any order. Unless you are the only Ranger still taking
turns, a different Ranger must go after you finish your turn. You can take
a second turn in a row by exhausting your role card.
On your turn, you can either perform a test, play a card, or rest.

PERFORM A TEST
Tests represent your Ranger’s
interactions with their environment.
They appear on cards as an aspect, plus
an approach icon, followed by both a
thematic and mechanical description
of what your Ranger does if the test is
successful.
You always have access to four common
tests which you can reference on
the common test reference card.
Additionally, cards in play will provide
other tests from which you can choose.
On your turn, you can choose one test
The Four Common Tests
to perform on any card in play except for
cards in other Rangers’ player areas (such as their equipped gear). The
detailed instructions for performing a test are described on page 16.
Most tests require that you interact with a card in play. When you
perform a test on a card within reach, along the way, or in the
surroundings, you count as interacting with that card. When you
perform a test on a card in your player area or played from your hand, if
that test directly affects a card in play, you count as interacting with the
affected card or cards.
For example, the Traverse test can place progress on the location.
When you perform that test, you count as interacting with the location.

12

Within reach

Area indicator

When you interact with a card in play, other cards between you and the
card with which you’re interacting can cause you to suffer fatigue. This
is described later in the Fatigue section on page 20.

PLAY A CARD
To play a card from your hand, spend an amount of energy
matching the card’s cost: the number and type of energy
shown in the upper left-hand corner of the card.

The card then has an effect based on its card type:
Moments: Moment cards describe the
specific circumstances under which they can
be played in their rules text. When you play a
moment, resolve all instructions on the card
and discard it.
Attachments: Attachment cards are placed
in play attached to a card specified in the
attachment card’s text. Place that card
under or to the side of the card to which it
is attached and apply its effects. If the card
it is attached to leaves play for any reason,
discard the attachment card.
Gear: Gear cards have ongoing effects or
abilities that you can trigger during your turn
(or at other times specified on the card). Gear
cards are equipped by being played into your
player area and stay there until you choose to
discard them.

RESPONSES
Some rules begin with “Response:” These
effects resolve at the time specified by
their rules text. If this is on a moment, you
can play that card at the specified time.
This might be during your turn, during
other Rangers’ turns, or even during other
phases of the game.

TOKENS
Many cards make use of unique tokens
to track the number of times they can
be used. These cards are marked with a
number and name for the tokens in a box
on the right side of the card. When one
of these cards comes into play, place a
number of general use tokens on this card
equal to that number.
When the card instructs you to “use” one
of the tokens, discard that token. If you no
longer have tokens to discard, you cannot
resolve effects that require you to use a
token. If a rule affects “tokens” on a card,
it is refering to one of these named tokens.
Cards are not discarded when they run out
of tokens. On your turn, however, you
can choose to discard any number of
equipped cards that you no longer want.

Each gear has an equip value, ranging from 0 to 5,
displayed as a series of filled-in squares at the lower right of
its title bar. If you ever have more than five squares worth of
cards in your player area, you must discard cards from your
player area until five or fewer squares remain.
Features or Beings: Features or beings are
Ranger cards that function like a path card.
When you play these cards, place them within
reach of you and treat them like a path card
for as long as they remain in play.
Attributes: Attribute cards have no energy
cost. They cannot be played and can only be
used for tests (as explained on page 16).

REST
If you are finished taking turns for the round, you
can choose to rest. You can resolve any effects
that resolve “when you rest,” then your turn ends.
You cannot take another turn this round.
Once all Rangers have rested, Ranger turns are
over, and play proceeds to the travel phase.

13

PHASE 3: TRAVEL
After all Rangers have rested, you may decide as a group if you’d
like to travel. Traveling is how you move around the Valley, visit
new locations, discover people and places unique to certain areas.
Each location card has a progress threshold on the right-hand side
of the card. If the card has a number of progress tokens equal to or
greater than that threshold, you can choose to travel.
Note: Ready cards with the obstacle keyword prevent you from
traveling. You must either clear these cards, exhaust them, or deal
with them some other way before you can travel. See Obstacle on
page 27.

Progress Threshold

If you decide to travel, perform the following steps:

3. DECIDE TO CAMP

1. CLEAR PLAY AREA

After choosing your new location, as a
group, you can decide to end the day and
set up camp for the night before venturing
into the new landscape. Ending the day
in this way is safer than ending it in the
middle of navigating through a location
and allows you an opportunity to prepare
yourselves for the next day.

Discard all path cards in play and all Ranger cards within reach,
along the way, or in the surroundings (but not in your player area).
Then sort all cards from the path deck and path discard into their
sets, and return them to your collection.
Note: Cards with the persistent keyword are not discarded. See
Persistent on page 27.
Missions that instruct you to “travel away” from a location resolve
at this time.

2. TRAVEL TO A NEW LOCATION
As a group, choose the location to which you would like to travel
by consulting the Valley map. You must choose a nearby location;
in other words, a location that is connected directly to your current
location by a single path (denoted by a terrain set icon) as shown
the
on the map. You cannot “skip” over one location to reach another.

If you end the day in this way, you are
allowed to swap reward cards into your
Ranger decks between sessions (see
Customizing Decks on page 31). If you
chose not to end the day, continue to step 4.

Norther
Outpost

Atrox
Mountain

Once the group has chosen a destination, find its location card,
and place it into the surroundings, replacing the current location.
Note: You cannot travel along river paths until a certain game
component allows you to do so.
Lone Tree
Station

Golden
Shore

If your current location is Atrox
Mountain, for example, you
could
choose
White S
ky to travel to
Golden Shore by way of a
lakeshore path.
Boulder
Field

Ancestor’s
Grove

The Philosopher’s
Garden

14
Kobo’s
Market

Spire

4. BUILD THE PATH DECK
To build the path deck for your new location,
combine several sets of path cards:

Woods

Terrain Set: The locations in the Valley can
be vast areas, and the path you take can
dramatically change your experience of them.
The terrain you travel across determines
what kinds of features and wildlife you will
encounter. Each path on the Valley map has an
associated type of terrain based on its color
and an icon that appears along the line.

Lakeshore

To form the base of the
path deck, find all path
cards from the set matching
the type of terrain of the
path you took to the new
location.

Mountain Pass
Old-Growth
Grassland
Swamp
Ravine
River

Location Set: Certain locations have notable people and places
to seek out or discover on your journey. These locations are
pivotal. This is listed on their card and is marked on the Valley
map with a gold and brown eight-pointed star. These locations
have sets of path cards unique to them. Add each of these
cards to the path deck.

Pivotal
Location

If your new location is not pivotal, you are never quite sure
who or what you’ll encounter. You might find one of the Valley’s
other wanderers, other features of the Valley, or an exceptionally
dangerous predator. Shuffle all the path cards in The Valley set,
and add three random cards from this set to the path deck.

Valley Set

Other Path Cards: Other game effects may add additional
cards to the path deck.
Check the weather, location, and missions for any instructions labeled “Path
Deck Assembly.” When you finish building the path deck, shuffle it.

5. ARRIVAL SETUP

PHASE 4: REFRESH

Read the campaign guide entry noted on the
back of the location card.

At the end of the round, the Rangers refresh themselves
and prepare for the next round. Each Ranger performs the
following steps in order:

Missions to “arrive at” a location resolve
now. These may override reading the normal
campaign guide entry.
To finish setting up your destination, resolve
each instruction under the “Arrival Setup”
header. Most cards instruct the lead Ranger
to resolve an effect then have some number
of “next Rangers” resolve effects. If an effect
calls for the “next Ranger,” but each Ranger
has already resolved an effect, ignore those
additional effects.

• Suffer fatigue from injuries: Suffer one fatigue for
each injury you have.
• Draw one Ranger card: Draw one card from your
Ranger deck. There is no limit to the number of cards
you can have in your hand. If you cannot draw a card,
you are too tired to continue and your group must end
the day (see Ending the Day on page 21).
• Refill energy pools: Add energy tokens to your energy
pool until you have a number of each energy type equal
to the corresponding aspect value. If you have energy
in excess of one of your aspect values, you must discard
tokens until you are down to that value.
• Ready all cards in play: Ready all exhausted cards in all
areas. Then a new round begins!

15

PERFORMING A TEST
Tests are the heart of Earthborne Rangers. They are how you interact with your surroundings and make the world
come alive. Rangers perform tests on their turn as described on page 12.
Tests appear on cards as an aspect, plus an approach icon,
followed by both a thematic and mechanical description of the
test your Ranger will perform. To perform a test, you do the
following steps in order:

A test on a path card

1. CHOOSE TEST

2. COMMIT EFFORT

Choose the test you are going to
perform from a card in play that is
not in another Ranger’s player area.
Then choose any other cards the test
will be interacting with. (Most tests
interact with the card they are printed
on but some, such as the common
tests, interact with other cards, see
page 12).

Tests can succeed or fail. The more effort you commit to a test, the
more likely it is to succeed. Effort can be committed from several
sources (listed below). It can be helpful to place all of your committed
tokens and cards in the play area next to the test you are performing to
more easily track your total committed effort, then discard them after
the test is resolved.

Then each ready card between
you and the card with which you
are interacting fatigues you. This
is explained in more detail in the
Fatigue section on page 20.

COMMIT ENERGY
To initiate a test, you must first commit one or more energy tokens of
the specified aspect by removing them from your energy pool. Each
energy committed adds one effort. If you don’t have at least one energy
of the appropriate aspect to commit, you cannot perform that test.

COMMIT APPROACH ICONS
The approach icon listed in the test represents the way in which you are
approaching the situation and the methods you are employing. There
are four approaches:

 Conflict
 Reason
 Exploration
 Connection
You may discard any number of cards from your hand with an approach
icon matching the specified type on the left-hand side of the card to
add effort equal to the number of that icon on the card.
When you discard a card for its approach icons, you ignore all
information on the card that doesn’t explicitly refer to committing that
card. There is no limit to the number of approach icons you can discard
to commit to a test.

COMMIT EFFORT FROM OTHER SOURCES
Other game effects such as gear, helpful beings, or other Rangers’
Ranger tokens may commit effort when you perform a test. You add
this effort to your committed energy and approach icons during this
step to determine your total committed effort.

16

A player commits two AWA energy
and two exploration icons to a test
for a total of four effort.

3. APPLY MODIFIERS
Once you determine your
Ranger’s total committed effort,
draw and reveal the top card of
the challenge deck. The face of a
challenge card shows each of the
four aspects along with a 0, +1, –1,
or –2. Look for the aspect specified
by the test and combine the value
shown with your committed effort.
Then apply any other modifiers from
card effects in play that affect effort to
find your resulting effort.

4. SUCCESS OR FAILURE
Each test has a difficulty—the number
in brackets following the bold thematic
descriptor. If there is no number listed, the
difficulty is one. If your resulting effort
equals or exceeds the test difficulty,
you succeed. If your resulting effort is
lower than the test difficulty, you fail.

5. RESOLVE CHALLENGE EFFECTS
On the revealed challenge card, you’ll find one of
three unique challenge icons on a band of color
across the bottom: the Crest, the Mountain, or
the Sun. These icons match with challenge
effects on cards in play.
After you resolve the effects of success or
failure, you must resolve the instructions of
each challenge effect matching the challenge
icon drawn for the test that is shown on an
active card. Active cards are any ready cards
in the surroundings, along the way, within reach
of you, or in your player
area. Ignore challenge
effects on exhausted cards or within reach of
other players. However, if you’re interacting
with a card within reach of another Ranger, all
cards within reach of that Ranger also count
as active for this turn.
Note: Challenge effects on cards that were
cleared or exhausted by the results of a test
do not trigger, as they are either removed
from play or rendered inactive before this
step (see Clearing Cards on page 18).

Challenge Effect

Note: Some tests show a difficulty of X.
In these cases, the difficulty is dependent
on circumstances unique to that test and
will be explained elsewhere on that card.

CHALLENGE EFFECT ORDER

If you succeed, resolve any effects noted
in the text following the descriptor. If the
effect scales off of your effort on the test,
it scales off of your resulting effort.

When resolving challenge effects, resolve cards in the following order.
When there are multiple challenge effects in one area, you can choose
the order in which you resolve
them.

If you fail, do not resolve the effects
immediately following the descriptor.
Often the only consequence for failing
a test is failure itself, but if there are any
effects for failing a test, they are explicitly
mentioned in the text following the
effects of success.
For example, if you fail a Traverse test,
you do not place any . Instead, you
suffer 1 injury.
Some tests will also include effects that
occur “whether you succeed or fail,”
which are always resolved regardless of
the outcome.

1. Weather cards
2. Location card
3. Mission cards
4. Cards along the way
5. Cards within reach
6. Cards in your player area

 RESHUFFLE ICON

After resolving a test, if any
challenge cards that show
the reshuffle icon () were
put into the discard, shuffle
the challenge discard back
into the challenge deck.

Each challenge effect only
resolves once per test. If for whatever reason, a card is in a position
to resolve its challenge effect a second time during the same test, it
does not do so.

CONDITIONAL CHALLENGE EFFECTS
Many challenge effects have additional conditions that determine
whether or not they trigger. If a challenge effect contains a doublearrow icon () dividing the text, you only resolve the text following
that icon if you successfully executed all instructions preceding the
icon or if the condition preceding the icon was true.

17

CLEARING CARDS
You’ll often be instructed to place two different kinds of
tokens on cards: progress () and harm (). Both are
abstractions—stand-ins for the narrative outcomes of
the tests you perform and the cards you play from your
hand.
Progress () is a measure of
time spent. For example, progress
placed on a feature or a location
may represent time spent walking across it, exploring
it, or simply contemplating its beauty. Similarly,
progress placed on beings may represent time spent
conversing with that being, studying its behavior, or
convincing it to let you pass unharmed. Clearing a card
with progress simply means that you’ve spent sufficient
time with it to enjoy any benefits it might provide or to
safely proceed beyond its presence.
What harm () represents
varies considerably from card
to card. On beings it may
represent physical harm, but it
can also represent distress. On features it may represent
how much damage a physical object can suffer before
it breaks, or the process of hacking a path through the
brush. It can also be a measure of how much material
can be harvested from a plant before nothing of use
remains.
Your instinct may be to think of a card’s harm threshold
as its “hit points,” that is, the amount of damage it can
sustain before it is killed or destroyed, but that it not
necessarily the case. When you clear a being with harm,
you’ve simply done enough damage or caused enough
distress to cause it to flee. When you clear a feature
from harm, you’ve overcome it through force or have
depleted it of its resources.

Most cards have thresholds matching one or both of
these token types on the upper-right of their text box.

18

When a card has tokens on it equal to or exceeding
the corresponding threshold, it clears. When you clear
a card, you perform any instructions in its text labeled
with “Clear.” If there is a campaign guide entry noted
next to “Clear,” turn to the matching entry in the
campaign guide and read it aloud. After resolving the
card effects, if it still has sufficient tokens to be cleared,
discard the card.

RANGER TOKENS
Each Ranger has a single
Ranger token unique to them
that can be moved to cards
in play, representing that
card requiring your Ranger’s
undivided attention or physical presence. When
your Ranger token is on a card in play, each other
Ranger commits one additional effort to any tests
they perform interacting with that card. This is
cumulative for each Ranger token present.
Some cards, instead of having a progress
threshold, are marked with the Ranger symbol.
These cards are cleared when every Rangers’
token is on the card.
When your Ranger token would be discarded or
is not on a card, move it to your role card.

When an effect causes a card to gain enough tokens to
clear, finish resolving the current rules step, then clear
any cards that have reached their thresholds.
For example, if a successful test places progress that
clears a card, finish resolving the success effects of the
test, then resolve the clear effect. Or, if a challenge
effect places harm that clears a card, finish resolving
the current challenge effect, then resolve the clear
effect.
If a card would clear from both token types, you can
choose which type to use to clear it.

CARDS WITHOUT THRESHOLDS
Some path cards don’t have harm or progress
thresholds. These cards can still receive those
tokens, but they will never clear because of them.

CLEARING AND LOCATIONS
Locations are an exception to the clearing rule. Every
location has a progress threshold that represents your
group’s progress toward traveling to the next location.
If you reach this progress threshold, however, the
location does not clear. Instead, when you reach the
travel step of a round, if the location has progress
equal to or exceeding its threshold, the group can
choose to travel (see Travel on page 14).

TEST EXAMPLE
1 Sam is playing as a solo Ranger

hiking through the woods. She has a
Prowling Wolhund and a Sitka Doe
within reach and an Overgrown Thicket
along the way. She decides to attempt a
Traverse test on the Overgrown Thicket.

2 When Sam interacts

with a card along the way,
each card within reach
fatigues her. So she suffers
three fatigue (two from the
Prowling Wolhund and one
from the Sitka Doe).

3 Sam commits two Fitness

energy tokens to the test, as
well as a card from her hand with
one exploration approach icon,
totaling three committed effort.

4 Next, Sam draws a challenge

card and applies the modifier for
Fitness, the aspect used for her
test. The modifier is a –1, giving
her a resulting effort of two. The
difficulty of the Traverse is equal
to the Overgrown Thicket’s
presence of one, so Sam’s two
succeeds at the test!

5 Since the test succeeded,
Sam resolves its instructions,
adding progress equal
to her effort (two) to the
Overgrown Thicket.

6 The two progress on the

Overgrown Thicket is equal
to its progress threshold,
so the card is cleared. Sam
discards it.

7 Finally, Sam resolves each challenge

effect matching the mountain () on the
challenge card she drew.
The Overgrown Thicket was already
cleared, so the only card with a mountain
challenge effect is the Sitka Doe.
The Prowling Wolhund
has the predator trait,
and since it is in the
“ready” position, it is
considered “active.” Sam
exhausts it and adds a
number of harm
tokens equal to its presence (two)
to the Sitka Doe, causing it to be
cleared and discarded as well.

19

FATIGUE
Your Ranger can only accomplish so much in one day
before they become too tired to go on. Your deck
represents your Ranger’s stamina, and if it runs out,
the day ends (see Ending the Day on page 21).
Navigating the Valley can be taxing, and no matter
how in tune a Ranger becomes with nature, there are
still challenges that can put strain on them. This is
represented by fatigue.
When your Ranger suffers fatigue, remove cards equal
to the amount of fatigue suffered from the top of your
Ranger deck and—without looking at them—place
those cards facedown near your Ranger discard,
creating the fatigue stack.

FATIGUE FROM INTERACTING
When you interact with the environment, things
between you and the thing with which you’re
interacting may cause you to suffer fatigue. This
might be a feisty Lutrinal harrying you as you try to
accomplish your task, or some difficult terrain slowing
you down.
Before you perform a test, each ready card between
you and the farthest card with which you are interacting
fatigues you. Which ready cards are between you and
that card depends on the area in which it sits:
• Card is within reach: nothing is between you.
• Card is within reach of another Ranger: all
cards within reach of you are between you.
• Card is along the way: all cards within reach of
you are between you.
• Card is in the surroundings: all cards within
reach of you and along the way are between you.

Ranger
Deck

Ranger
Discard

Fatigue
Stack

If you are ever instructed to suffer fatigue, but you do
not have enough cards remaining in your Ranger deck
to suffer that fatigue, you must end the day.

“FATIGUES YOU”

Some Ranger cards and game effects will act upon a
card and manipulate it in some way without performing
a test. These effects are not considered interactions, so
cards between you and the affected card do not fatigue
you.
If a test on a card in your player area or played from
your hand interacts with multiple cards, only resolve
this step once for the card with which you’re interacting
that is furthest from you.

Each card in the path deck has a presence value in the
upper right-hand corner. Some game effects will cause
cards to fatigue you. When this happens, if the card is
ready, you suffer fatigue equal to the presence of that
card. If it is exhausted, the card does not fatigue you.

SOOTHING FATIGUE
Some game effects will allow you to soothe fatigue.
When this happens, draw that many cards from the top
of your fatigue stack and place them in your hand.

20

To interact with the location, this Ranger will
suffer a total of three fatigue (two from the
Prowling Wolhund within reach and one from the
Ranger Cache along the way).

ENDING THE DAY
The day can end in several ways:
• Choose to Camp: When you successfully travel,
the group can decide to camp for the night.
• Ranger too Fatigued: If a Ranger needs to draw
a card or suffer fatigue but cannot, the day ends
immediately.
• Ranger too Injured: If a Ranger suffers their third
injury, the day ends at the end of the current turn.
That Ranger must add one “Lingering Injury” card
to their deck (see Injury on page 23).
• Ally in Peril: It is your duty to protect the people
of the Valley. For most human beings, if they are
ever cleared due to harm, the campaign guide will
instruct you to end the day.
• Mission Complete: Sometimes, when the final
stage of a mission is complete, you will reach a
stopping point important enough to end the day.
The campaign guide will instruct you to do so.
When the day ends, your current play session is over,
and one day of campaign time passes. Check off the
next day on the campaign tracker. Save your current
location by either storing it with your Ranger deck or
writing it down on the campaign tracker along with
the terrain type you were traveling on. The rest of the
game materials can be packed up and returned to their
normal storage locations.

BRINGING IT ALL TOGETHER
These rules walk you through how you will
be playing the game, but they don’t get
into the specifics of what you will be trying
to accomplish. Because of the nature of
Earthborne Rangers’ open world, your goal
for a given day can change from session to
session based on your current mission or
some other objective or idea you have based
on a hint you were given or your general
desire to explore.
One session, you might be attempting to
journey to a far off location, so your goal will
be to use the Traverse action to add progress
to the location and ultimately travel as many
times as possible before one of you runs out
of cards in your deck. To do this, you will need
to get the cards between you and the location
out of the way. You might Connect with a
friendly creature, Avoid a more dangerous
one to exhaust it, Traverse other features in
the way, or use custom actions specific to the
cards that come into play.
The next session, instead you might be trying
to find a specific character. To do this, you will
stay at a specific location, using cards with
the scout ability to dig for cards and trying to
keep the board clear of threats while waiting
to find them.
The following session, you might be
attempting to complete a mission card with a
custom objective—one that has you interacting
with cards in a way you didn’t expect.
Ultimately, Earthborne Rangers isn’t like a lot
of other card games where you are trying to
accomplish a single, similar goal every session.
Instead, it is much more like a roleplaying
game—a collection of systems to simulate a
wide range of activities in an open world. It’s
up to you to discover all the different ways to
use them!

21

ADDITIONAL CONCEPTS
ACTIVE

DISCARD

Active cards are any ready card in the surroundings, along
the way, within reach, or in your player area. Cards within
reach of other Rangers are not active. If you’re interacting
with a card within reach of another Ranger, however, ready
cards within reach of them also count as active for that turn.

Place discarded cards in their corresponding discard
pile and discarded tokens in the supply. Effects that
trigger when a card clears do not trigger when a card is
discarded.

ATTACH

DODGE
Some game effects allow you to dodge cards when you
are performing a test. When you dodge cards, those
cards do not count as being between you and the card
with which you are interacting. Cards dodged in this
way do not fatigue you, and if they have the obstacle
keyword, they do not prevent you from interacting with
cards beyond them. These cards are still considered to
be active, so their challenge effects still trigger.

Some cards instruct you
to attach them to other
cards. Place the attached
card underneath the card
to which it is attached
with a bit poking out to
remind you that it’s there.
Faceup attached cards
Universal Power
are considered to be “in
Cells
attached to a
play,” while facedown
Camoweave Cloak
attached cards are not.
When a card is attached
facedown, discard any tokens from it. When a card
leaves play, any cards attached to it are discarded.
Some cards may attach to your role. You can still
interact with these cards. Resolve their challenge
effects as if they were within reach. When interacting
with other cards in play, cards attached to your role
always count as being between you and that card.

EXHAUST/READY
To exhaust a card, turn it ninety degrees. To ready a
card, turn it upright.
• Exhausted cards do not fatigue you.
• Exhausted cards are not active, so you do not
resolve challenge effects on them.
• You can interact with exhausted cards.
• If a text effect is prefaced by “exhaust [this
card],” you must be able to exhaust the card to
trigger the effect.
• You cannot exhaust a card that is already
exhausted.

CAMPAIGN GUIDE
If a campaign guide entry appears
in a card’s title bar, read the entry
marked with the associated number
when that card enters play.
When an entry icon appears in card
text followed by a number, read the
entry matching that number when
that text is triggered. If the entry icon
is not followed by a number, read the
entry corresponding to the number
shown at the top of the card.

Campaign
Guide Entry

For more information, see the campaign guide section
on page 28.

22

Ready

Exhausted

Note: Abilities that begin with “Exhaust:” can only be
used at specific times (see Triggered Effect Timing on
page 23).

INJURY

SEARCH

Injuries represent a significant danger to your Ranger.
If your Ranger accumulates too many injuries during a
day, they will be forced to camp for the night.

When you are instructed to “search” for a card, pick
up the indicated decks or piles of cards, find every
card matching the criteria specified, and choose one
of them (for example, “search for a gear card”). If you
searched for a path card, put the card into play. If you
searched for a Ranger card, place the card into your
hand. Then return all unchosen cards to where you got
them and shuffle any affected decks.

If a game effect injures your Ranger, place a harm
token on your role card and discard all the cards in
your fatigue stack.
For each injury you’ve suffered, you suffer one fatigue
during the refresh phase.
When you are instructed to heal an injury, remove one
harm from your role.
After your Ranger suffers their third injury, you must
end the day at the end of your current turn, and you
add one “Lingering Injury” card to your deck from your
collection (if there is one available to add).

IN PLAY
Any card or token that is in the surroundings, along the
way, within reach, in a player area, or on a component
in one of these areas is in play. Cards in discard piles, in
players’ hands, or in decks are not in play.

MOVE
The card is moved to a different area than the one in
which it currently sits. If an area isn’t specified, you can
choose to move it either along the way or within reach
of a Ranger of your choice.

 (PER RANGER)
The symbol  represents the number of Rangers
(players) currently playing the game. When it is next to
another value, multiply the number of Rangers by that
value (for example, in a two-player game “3 ” would
equal six).

SCOUT
When you are instructed to “scout” a deck, you look
at the number of cards specified from the top of that
deck (for example, “scout 3 path cards”), then place
any number of those cards on the top and/or bottom
of that deck in the order of your choice.

Some search effects may instruct you to search for the
“next” card matching a certain criteria. In those cases,
go through the deck card-by-card, starting at the top,
and pick the first card that matches the criteria. If, in
these cases, it specifies to search two locations (for
example “search the path deck and discard”), search
the locations in the order they are written. If you fail to
find a card in a location, move on to the next.
If instructed to search a set of cards, find that set in the
collection, and search it as described above. If the set
is currently in use, go through the deck and discard in
which it is currently being used.

TIMING
Many card effects resolve at a specific time (for
example, “when you perform a test”). Any effects that
don’t specify a timing are either ongoing effects that
are always in effect, or effects that you can choose to
use during any Ranger’s turn.
Effects that specify a timing will do so relative to a step
in the rules (or sometimes another game effect) using
one of the following words:
• Before: The effect resolves immediately before
you begin the specified step.
• When: The effect resolves during the specified
step. This usually modifies the entire step in
some way or triggers at a specific time within
the step itself. Read that step’s rules for more
clarification.
• After: The effect resolves immediately after all
effects of the specified step have been resolved.
If multiple effects would resolve during the same
timing window, you can choose the order in which they
resolve.

TRIGGERED EFFECT TIMING
Effects that can be triggered by you (such as exhaust
abilities on your Ranger cards) that do not have a
timing specified can only be used at the beginning or
end of your or another Ranger’s turn. Thus, they cannot
be used while a test is being performed or while
another card’s effect is in the process of resolving.

23

CARD ANATOMY

1

1. Set Reminder: An icon showing which set the
card belongs to to help with quickly identifying
the set while in storage.

2

3

5
6

4

2. Title: The name of the card.

7

3. Card Type and Traits: Flavorful attributes that
may be referenced by card abilities.

8

4. Area Indicator: Indicates whether the card comes
into play within reach or along the way.

9

5. Campaign Guide Entry: Indicates an entry in the
campaign guide that should be read aloud when
the card enters play.

10
12

6. Presence: The card’s prominence in the
environment. This value determines the amount
of fatigue it may cause and scales other effects.
7. Tokens: Shows the name of a special token type
used for this card and the number of those tokens
placed on it when it comes into play. Use general
tokens to track these.
8. Harm Threshold: A measure of the card’s
well-being. When a card has an equal or greater
number of harm tokens, it clears.
9. Progress Threshold: A measure of the Rangers’
time spent with the being, feature, or location
that the card represents. When the value shown
a being or feature is reached, it clears. When the
value shown a location is reached, the Rangers
can choose to travel.
10. Abilities and Tests: The main abilities of that
card. This can include tests the Rangers can
perform, special rules for the card, or effects that
resolve when the card clears.

13

2
3
9
10

6

13

2

11. Mission Objective: The condition that must be
met to progress further in the mission.
12. Challenge Effects: Effects that resolve at the end
of tests based on which of the three challenge
icons is shown on the challenge card.
13. Set Information: The name of the card’s set and
the card’s number in that set.

10
11
12
13

24

3

RANGER CARD ANATOMY
1. Energy Cost: The number of energy tokens that
need to be spent to play the card.

1

2

3
4

2. Title: The name of the card.
3. Card Type and Traits: Flavorful attributes that
may be referenced by card abilities.
4. Equip Value: The amount of space the card takes
up when equipped. If you have more than five total
filled-in equip value boxes in your play area, you
must discard cards until you have five or fewer.
5. Presence: The card’s prominence in the
environment. Only on being or feature Ranger
cards.
6. Tokens: Shows the name of a special token type
used for this card and the number of those tokens
placed on it when it comes into play. Use general
tokens to track these.
7. Harm Threshold: A measure of the card’s
well-being. When this card has an equal or
greater number of harm tokens, it clears.

8

10

6

9

11

2
3

8. Approach Icons: Icons that can be commited to
tests by discarding the card. The card adds one
effort for each approach icon matching the one
shown on the test.
9. Abilities and Tests: The main abilities of that
card. This can include tests the Rangers can
perform, special rules for the card, or effects that
resolve when the card clears.
10. Aspect Requirement: You must have this value or
higher in the shown aspect to include this card in
your deck.

11

9

11. Set Information: The name of the card’s set and
the card’s number in that set.

5

7

25

KEYWORDS
Keywords stand in for longer rules statements that would otherwise commonly appear on cards.

AMBUSH

FATIGUING

When a card with the ambush keyword enters play
within reach or moves within reach of a Ranger, it
fatigues that Ranger.

When you rest, if this card is ready and is in your player
area, within reach, or along the way, you suffer fatigue
equal to its presence. If this keyword is followed by a
number, suffer that much fatigue instead.

Note: Only ready cards can fatigue you. If the card is
exhausted, you do not suffer fatigue from ambush.

CONDUIT
When you have a card with the conduit keyword
equipped, you can play manifestation cards by using
(discarding) a token from that conduit.

DISCONNECTED
You cannot add progress to this card using the
Connect common test.

26

FRIENDLY
When a card with the friendly keyword is between you
and the card with which you’re interacting, it does not
fatigue you.
You cannot affect a card that has the friendly keyword
with a card that has the weapon trait.

MANIFESTATION
To play a card with the manifestation keyword, you
must use (discard) a token from one of your equipped
cards with the conduit keyword.

OBSTACLE

SETUP

You cannot interact with a card if a ready card with the
obstacle keyword is between you and that card.

At the start of the day after step 1 of setup, you can
search your deck for one card with the setup keyword
and put it into play.

For example, an obstacle within reach prevents you
from interacting with cards along the way or in the
surroundings. An obstacle along the way prevents you
from interacting with cards in the surroundings.
You cannot travel if there are any ready cards with the
obstacle keyword in play.

UNIQUE
A Ranger cannot have two unique cards with the same
name from their deck in play at the same time. If you
play a second copy of the same unique card, the first
one is immediately discarded.

PERSISTENT
Persistent cards (ready or exhausted) and all cards
attached to them remain in play when you travel.

27

PLAYING A CAMPAIGN
The story of Earthborne Rangers unfolds over a campaign across multiple play sessions, with each session
representing one day. What you do each day is up to you. You can complete missions to progress the story, or
you can head out and explore to uncover emergent moments and objectives hidden throughout the world. As
you accomplish different tasks, you will be granted new cards that permanently change your deck, and your
choices may have long-lasting effects on the Valley.

They reproduce,

those, interestingly enough, is the spirit of the Verdessa. It shares a

connection with the spirit of the Valley—like a mother to her
To startdeep
a new
campaign, read the Getting Started section on page 9. Then each time you return to play a new day,
child—and for some reason, I cannot reach it. It's very distressing.
mbering around
set
up
that
day
following the Game Setup instructions on page 10. The game scales to the number of Rangers in it,
verything else?”
"I've received word that a wandering botanist has recently returned
Nal thinks that
from
an
excursion
Verdessa,
that group
she's brought
some
so you do not have totothehave
the and
same
every
time you play. Rangers can drop in and out or miss a day if needed.

is a part of the
en eating its way
stop it. What do

rare plant specimens along with her. She is currently staying at the
merchant's quarters in Kobo's Market. If I had one of these specimens,
I may be able to use it to reconnect with the spirit of the Verdessa.
Perhaps you could accompany me to the market? I would be very
grateful."

CAMPAIGN GUIDE

cloth. You catch
d lethal-looking

THE LIVING VALLEY

The campaign guide contains numerically ordered
RANGERS CHOOSE:
entries that you read as you play the game. These
A) Accompany Nal to Kobo’s Market. Remove all , and attach
contain the
storyHELPING
text that
beto Spirit
readSpeaker
out to
HANDcan
mission
Nal. the group,
fy yourself to
asit well B)
asSome other
mechanical
instructions
on
time. Discard
Spirit Speaker
Nal.how
Each the
Rangerevents
mulcher, like the
soothes 2 fatigue.
change
the
game.
the ecosystem. I

45.8
When a
 icon appears in card text followed by a
number,
thefalls
entry
that
when
Nal read
slumps and
to the matching
ground. You move
to number
help her, clearing
prove it. Coating
a space on the ground and making her comfortable. You determine
that text
is resolved. Some entries have different
t you or spit you
that you’ll need to stay here for the rest of the day to treat her injuries.
variants
based
on the conditions under which you read
End the day.
living plants, or
them. Go to the entry matching the condition that
the through the
46.you
THE
GROWER’S
ASSEMBLAGE
caused
to read
the entry (for
example, “Enters
Play” As
foryou
when
the path
play).
approach
Meadow'scard
villageenters
center, you
hear the cheery

tions. Have you,
have corrected it
”

sounds of commerce. Local foragers and ranchers have set up their

daily market,
the people
Meadow
gathered both
to trade have
The entry
may and
check
to of
see
if have
different
conditions
and to socialize. Stalls of pine and forged carbon bustle with life,
been their
met.awnings
Read
down
these
“if”
statements
order.
woven
from long
grasses
dyed in a
multitude of in
vibrant
d. Gain the
Most are stocked with foodstuffs, from freshly baked bread to
Followcolors.
the
instructions
of
the
first
one
you
meet.
moss-cherry preserves to smoked mutton. You can see, however, that

n the

a few of the locals are trading gear and equipment as well.

of the sun. She
t the time, I can
still accompany

47. HY PIMPOT, CHEF
ENTERS PLAY

GO TO 47.1

CLEAR 

IF HELPING HAND IS ATTACHED, GO TO 47.2
OTHERWISE, GO TO 47.3

rit Speaker Nal.

CLEAR 

Ranger soothes

47.1

child—and for some reason, I cannot reach it. It's very distressing.

You can help Hy Pimpot by gathering ingredients for the stew,
The options
andhimtheir
consequences
are the
indented.
to ask him
how tohas
make
as
or"I've
you received
can clearword
with
that a
wandering
botanist
recentlystew
returned
good
as
possible.
After from an
resolving
your
chosen
option,
make
suresome
to check
excursion
to the
Verdessa, and
that she's
brought
rare plant specimens along with her. She is currently staying at the
if the merchant's
entry instructs
you
to
“
Continue
reading”
as
quarters in Kobo's Market. If I had one of these specimens,
47.2
I
may
be
able
to
use
it
to
reconnect
with
the
spirit
of
the
Verdessa.
there might be more.

oth. You
catch
ring
before
her
lethal-looking

Perhaps
you
couldwaves
accompany
to the
market?
I would
be very
“Ah!” Hy
Pimpot
at you.me
“What
else
have you
brought
me?
grateful."
Surely not just more ricegrass and chikorish leaves? I can get those
here! You’ve got to get away from Lone Tree to forage, or this soup
RANGERS
CHOOSE:
will be left simply … bland!
You still willing
to help, or should I head
home?”
A) Accompany Nal to Kobo’s Market. Remove all , and attach
the HELPING HAND mission to Spirit Speaker Nal.

o communicate
so effectively, I
his land. One of
y yourself to it
ulcher, like the
he ecosystem. I
ons. Have you,
ave corrected it

45.8

ove it. Coating
you or spit you

Nal slumps and falls to the ground. You move to help her, clearing
a space on the ground and making her comfortable. You determine
that you’ll need to stay here for the rest of the day to treat her injuries.

28

B) Some other time. Discard Spirit Speaker Nal. Each Ranger
soothes 2 fatigue.

STORING YOUR COLLECTION
All of your cards that aren’t currently being used
in the game or in Ranger decks are referred to as
your collection. The game box contains a number
of dividers that allow you to keep your collection
organized by card set to make it easy to build new path
decks when traveling or fetch individual cards when a
game effect calls for it. We recommend storing cards
with their left edge facing up, allowing you to quickly
look for the gray set labels on Ranger cards or the set
icon on path cards.

STORING RANGER DECKS

GO TO 47.6

You hear a
Hy’s shrill
whistling
before
him. It’sin
said
Sometimes,
choice
will long
have
toyou
beseemade
anthatentry.
every Ranger in the Valley has tried to teach Hy Pimpot a new song to
The group
should
make
these
choices together, but
whistle, but
none of them
have
succeeded.
e to accompany
if
there
is
an
impasse,
the
lead
Ranger
decides.
We
Eventually
you spot
the stout
little
gnome of a
man intently
chopping
self has recently
and mixing vinegary-smelling herbs and vegetables into a large bowl.
s back from recommend
his
making
the he says
choice
only
based
the
“Good, good,
you’re here,”
without
looking
at you.on
“Try this
stew. I need
to know
ifeach
I’ve hit red
the right
balance between
‘pleasant
information
listed
in
header,
and
only
reading
heat’ and
‘tongue searing.
it need?
hey reproduce,
those,
interestingly
enough,What
is thedoes
spirit
of the Kelpweed?
Verdessa. ItMourning
shares a
Root?”
the deep
consequences
after
you
decide.
connection with
the spirit
of the
Valley—like a mother to her

l , and attach
mbering around
Nal.
erything else?”
Nal
ach thinks
Rangerthat
a part of the
n eating its way
op it. What do

The Living Valley is a curated online resource for
Earthborne Rangers players. In addition to the rules
glossary and FAQ, it is home to a fully featured version
of the Lure of the Valley campaign guide. The online
version of the campaign guide includes hyperlinked
entries and a search function for easy navigation.
You can find The Living Valley on our website
(earthbornegames.com).

29

As you play through the campaign, rewards, injuries,
and other decisions will modify your Ranger deck,
evolving and changing it as you grow as a Ranger. If
you are playing a single campaign out of your box,
the easiest way to keep track of all the changes to the
Ranger decks is to store them as-is using the included
dividers.
However, if you are unable to keep the Ranger decks
in one piece for storage, or if you’re playing multiple
campaigns with one set of cards, you can download
the Ranger deck list PDF from earthbornegames.com.
With this, you can record all the cards in your Ranger
decks so that they can be reassembled at a later date.

CAMPAIGN TRACKER

MISSIONS
When the campaign guide gives you a new mission,
write the name of the mission in the “Missions”
section, and write the current day in the box to the
left. Then place the corresponding mission card in the
surroundings. Some missions will track your progress
using the boxes to the right of the mission, and when
you complete a mission, cross the mission off of
your list (see Mission Cards on page 30 for more
information).

The last page of the campaign guide is a tracking
sheet that can be used to keep track of your campaign
progress. You can also find a printable PDF of this
sheet at earthbornegames.com. This sheet tracks all
the information you need to reference during your
campaign:

CURRENT POSITION
At the end of each day, record your current location
and terrain type here (ideally in pencil so it can be
erased). Then when setting up the next day, use this
location and terrain type.

REWARDS
When the campaign guide rewards you with a new
card, write the name of the card in the “Rewards”
section. Find all copies of that reward card in your
collection and set them aside. These are now available
for the group to use to customize their decks (see
Customizing Your Deck on page 31). If you would ever
gain the same reward again, ignore that effect.

DAY TRACK
The day track on the tracking sheet keeps track of how
many days have passed during your campaign. At the
end of each day, cross off that day on the day track.
Each day has a “recommended weather” card listed
underneath it to use during setup (see Weather Cards
on page 30).

NOTABLE EVENTS
As you make decisions or accomplish story milestones,
the campaign guide will instruct you to record the
outcomes of notable events to potentially check
against later. Simply write the specified phrase in the
“Notable Events” section.

Many of the outcomes of different missions change
based on how many days you take to complete them,
and other elements of the story may change based on
how much time has passed.
During step 6 of setup, read any entries listed over
the current day. The campaign guide may instruct you
to record entries above certain days based on your
actions in the Valley.


1

1


94.1


1.04

3

4

2

A Perfect Day

5

6

7

D ow n p ou r

8

9

A Perfect Day

10

11

12

D ow n p ou r

13

14

Ho w l i n g Wi n ds

15

16

17

D ow n p ou r

18

19

20

H ow l i n g Wi n ds

21

22

A Perfect Day

23

24

25

D ow n p ou r

26

27

28

H ow l i n g Wi n ds

29

30

A Perfect Day

M ISSI O NS
Day

Nam e

Progress

Day

Name

Progress

Day

Name

Progress

• C A M PA I G N TR AC K ER •

R A N G ER S

Cu rrent Position
Lo cati on

N OTA BLE E V ENTS

RE WA RDS

Path Terrai n

29

MISSION CARDS

WEATHER CARDS

Mission cards provide you with objectives you must
complete in order to advance the story.

Weather cards represent the weather or other strange
atmospheric conditions that may affect you on your
travels. Much like mission cards, weather cards are
placed in the surroundings and work like path cards,
except they typically do not have harm or progress
thresholds. If a weather card would be cleared or
discarded by other game effects, it is instead returned
to the surroundings.

You will gain new missions when instructed by the
campaign guide. When this happens, record its name
on the campaign tracker and the current day in the box
to its left. Then find the corresponding mission card, and
put it into play in the surroundings. On the campaign
tracker, each line of the mission has three boxes to the
right that some missions use to track progress.
During setup, for each mission on your campaign tracker
that hasn’t yet been completed, put that mission’s card
into play in the mission area of the surroundings.

Weather cards are two-sided and often flip to their
other side. When they do, they maintain any tokens
that were on the card.
Missions work much the same way as path cards, except
they typically do not have harm or progress thresholds.
If a mission card would be cleared or discarded by other
game effects, it is instead returned to the surroundings.
Missions can only be removed from play by completing
them (or other special instructions on the mission
itself). When a mission is complete, cross it off on the
campaign tracker and return its card to the collection.
Each mission has an objective listed inside a green
box. When this condition is met, read the next entry in
the mission’s story.

MISSION SUBJECTS
Some missions have subjects listed in their name in
parenthesis—for example, “Track (Quisi Vos).” These
subjects are either a location card or path card, and
are used by the mission in some way. When a mission
is listed with a subject, find the subject’s card in your
collection and attach it facedown to the mission. The
mission will provide instructions on how the subject is
utilized.

30

CUSTOMIZING DIFFICULTY WITH WEATHER
When you set up a new day, the campaign tracker
recommends which weather card to use. However,
groups who are looking to adjust the challenge of their
game can choose to swap in a different weather card
during setup based on the difficulty they prefer:
• Easy - A Perfect Day
• Normal - Downpour
• Hard - Howling Winds
• Expert - Electric Fog
Note: Electric Fog is not included in the
“recommended weather” on the campaign tracker and
should only be used by groups looking for an intense
challenge.

CUSTOMIZING YOUR DECK
As you progress through the campaign, your Ranger’s
deck will change as you unlock new cards and replace
the cards with which you began the campaign. This
represents your Ranger learning from experience and
gaining access to new and better gear.
There are three ways you can alter your deck during a
campaign:

PERMANENT ALTERATIONS
Some effects during gameplay may make permanent
changes to your deck. These effects usually allow you
to trade one card from your deck for one other card
from the starting Ranger card list. You can never go
over two copies of the same card with these changes.
These alterations to your deck are permanent and
cannot be reversed except by other similar effects
found during play.
You cannot add cards with the Expert trait to your deck
by any means, including permanent alterations, unless
they are from your chosen background or speciality.

SWAPPING REWARDS IN AND OUT
If you end the day by camping (see Travel on page
14), you can use the downtime to reorganize your
gear and think on your experiences.
If you ended the day by camping, before you start
the next day, you may choose up to two copies of any
reward card that you’ve unlocked, and for which you
meet the aspect requirement, and add them to your
deck. For each reward card you add, you must choose
a non-malady card to remove from your deck.
If the removed card is another reward, return it to
the collection. But if the removed card is a starting
Ranger card, set it aside. These displaced cards can
be swapped back into your deck any time you camp
in the same way as rewards, and are not part of the
collection.

MALADIES
Maladies represent the lingering negative effects of the
trials your Ranger has endured. The primary malady
that can be added to your deck is Lingering Injury,
which is added to your deck if you are forced to end
the day after suffering three injuries.
Maladies are always in addition to the thirty cards
normally in your Ranger deck and cannot be swapped
out for reward cards, traded away to merchants, or
removed by any other method apart from what is
described on the malady card itself.

After ending the day by camping, a Ranger adds two copies of their newlyunlocked Touch of the Verdessa reward card. They remove one copy of Eagle Eye
and one copy of Balanced to make room.

31

CREATING YOUR RANGER
To start a campaign of Earthborne Rangers, you build your own custom Ranger character. You’ll bring all the
cards you need together in a way that tells the story of who your Ranger is, how they spent their formative years,
and what specialized training they’ve received before they completed the trials, rites, and ceremonies that
welcomed them into the service of the Rangers.
If you are starting with the Prologue (see page 9), you will create a character as part of that process, but if you
are jumping right into the game, you can follow these steps to create your Ranger.

RANGER CARDS
Ranger cards are broken into five categories: personality, background, specialty, malady, and reward. You can
set aside all reward and malady cards for now. Those are obtained during the campaign and not used in Ranger
creation. Both backgrounds and specialties are broken into different sets that you will be choosing between
during character creation. To make Ranger creation easier, we recommend placing each of these sets in their own
pile to keep them organized.
Once you become familiar with the deck customization process, you can build your deck in any order you like,
but for your first time, we recommend performing the following steps in order:

CHOOSE YOUR ASPECTS
Awareness (AWA):
Your Ranger’s skills of
observation. Awareness
is a measure of how
well they process the
world around them.

Spirit (SPI): Your
Ranger’s inner strength
and sense of self.
Spirit is a measure of
how well your Ranger
knows themself.

Fitness (FIT): Your
Ranger’s strength,
agility, and endurance.
Fitness is a measure of
how well they respond
to physical demands.

Focus (FOC): Your
Ranger’s concentration
and ability to recall
knowledge. Focus is a
measure of how well
they can stay on task.

Aspects are four values that represent where your inherent strengths lie. All of
them are listed on a single card. There are a total of twelve different aspect
cards to choose from, each of which features a different spread of values
across the four aspects, ranging from 3 to 1. On each aspect card, there is a
high stat (3), and a low stat (1). Choose one of these cards for your Ranger.
Your high and low aspect will define the types of tests that your
Ranger is inherently good at performing. It will also determine
which cards you are able to include in your Ranger deck.
Each Ranger card has an aspect requirement on the left-hand side
of the card. If your corresponding aspect is not equal to or higher
than that requirement, you cannot include that card in your deck.

32

DETERMINE YOUR
PERSONALITY
Personality cards represent the
type of person your Ranger is
and how they engage with the
world around them.
Select four unique cards from
the personality set: choose
one personality card from each
of the four different aspects
(Awareness, Fitness, Focus,
and Spirit), and add two copies
of each chosen card to your
Ranger deck.

CHOOSE YOUR BACKGROUND
Your Ranger’s background represents their experience
from early life and young adulthood. It contains the
skills and equipment you bring with you into the
Rangers. Choose one of the four background sets:
• Artisan: See page 34.
• Forager: See page 35.
• Shepherd: See page 36.
• Traveler: See page 37.
The background sets contain nine unique cards
each. Select five of those cards from your chosen
background, and add two copies of each of the
selected cards to your Ranger deck.

CHOOSE YOUR SPECIALTY
Your Ranger’s specialty represents the training and
experience of your Ranger’s adulthood and the
specialized training they bring to the Rangers. Choose
one of the four specialty sets:
• Artificer: See page 38.
• Conciliator: See page 40.
• Explorer: See page 42.
• Shaper: See page 44.
The specialty sets contain fourteen unique cards each.
Select five cards from your chosen specialty, and
add two copies of each of the selected cards to your
Ranger deck.

CHOOSE YOUR OUTSIDE
INTEREST
The last step to creating your Ranger is to select your
outside interest—a card that represents your hobbies
and passions outside of your day-to-day life. This is a
single card chosen from any specialty or background
set. The chosen card cannot be a role or have the
expert trait. Add two copies of this card to your Ranger
deck.
The first time you create a Ranger, this choice can be
a daunting one, as nearly the entire card pool is at
your disposal. If you prefer to choose from a shorter,
curated list, please see the list of suggestions below:
• Ferinodex - Artificer Specialty
• Boundary Sensor - Explorer Specialty
• Intention Translator - Conciliator Specialty
• Ironwool Boots - Traveler Background
• Favorite Gear - Artisan Background
• Paratrepsis Whistle - Shepherd Background
• Familiar Ground - Forager Background
• Infusion Canteen - Artificer Specialty
Once you’re done with this step, you’ll have a total
of thirty cards in your deck (fifteen unique cards, two
copies of each), plus your role and aspect card. Your
Ranger is now ready to begin their adventure!

Additionally, each specialty includes two role cards.
These roles do not go in your deck, but start the
game in play and offer you a special, repeatable
ability you can use and rely on. Select one of those
roles for your Ranger.

ROLE
Your role represents what you specialize in
and what function you serve in your group of
Rangers. Your role gives you a card that starts
every game in play and grants you a consistent,
repeatable ability.

33

BACKGROUND: ARTISAN
In your early life, you worked on a specialized craft in
one of the Valley’s villages. You are adept in the use
of tools, and you know how to work with your hands.
Artisan cards key off of and support your equipped gear
and the gear of other Rangers.

The Valley’s artisans are responsible for crafting tools
and mastering their construction. They handcraft items
for their communities and teach others how to do the
same. An apprenticeship with a master artisan can
sometimes last up to twenty years.

1 FIT

LIFE AS AN ARTISAN
The Mother of Invention

1

AWA

1 FIT

1 AWA

Moment / Wisdom

Moment of Desperation

Gear / Clothing

1

AWA

Masterwork

Attachment / Mod / Expert

Reduce the equip value of your gear
by 1 (to a minimum of 1).

1

FIT

2

FIT

Attach to a Ranger’s equipped gear.
Response: When a Ranger performs
a test from the attached gear, commit
1 effort.

AWA +  (use 1 pocket): Open

3

Moment / Experience / Weapon

Discard one of your equipped gear
to add  to a being equal to the
number of tokens on the discarded
gear.

2 FIT

2 AWA

Choose a ranger. That ranger may
discard one of their equipped gear
to search their ranger deck for a
gear and equip it without paying its
energy cost.

Pocketed Belt Pouch

0

FIT

Choose an attachment in a
Ranger’s discard. That Ranger may
immediately play that attachment as
if it were in their hand.

Artisans often go on to become artificers as they
turn their attention toward experimenting with new
technology, but many also go on to to pursue other
interests, where they craft tools of their trade unequaled
by their peers.

The Right Tool

Moment / Wisdom

your belt pouch and reach inside to
search your Ranger deck for a gear
and add it to your hand.

Universal Power Cells

Attachment / Mod / Tech

1

FOC

1 SPI

1 FOC

pockets

Favorite Gear

Attachment / Mod

Attach to a Ranger’s equipped tech.

Attach to one of your equipped gear.

When you play this attachment, add
3 tokens to the attached gear.

Response: After you use a token
from the attached gear, soothe 1
fatigue.

34

Gear / Tool / Tech

2

FOC

2 SPI

2 FOC

Response: When this card becomes
unattached, discard 3 tokens from
the attached gear.

Functional Replica

Energized Hiking Greaves

Exhaust (use 1 charge): Choose
a Ranger’s equipped gear. Resolve
the chosen gear’s effect as if you
had used a token from it and/or
exhausted it.

3

charges

1

SPI

Gear / Tech / Aid

2

SPI

Use X buffers: When you perform a
test, suffer X fewer fatigue from each
card between you and the card with
which you are interacting.

3

buffers

BACKGROUND: FORAGER
In your early life, you gained tremendous knowledge of
the plants of the Valley. You know how to identify the
flora of the wilderness—which are medicinal, which are
edible, and which are dangerous. Forager cards key off
of cards with the flora trait, allowing you to use them as
a resource in ways that cards from other backgrounds
do not.

The Valley’s foragers are responsible for gathering
food for their communities, returning with harvests of
fruits, vegetables, mushrooms, herbs, spices, and any
other delicious plant life they can find.

1 AWA

LIFE AS A FORAGER
Green Thumb

Attachment / Skill / Expert

Search the path deck and discard for
a flora and put it into play with this
skill attached.
Increase the attached flora’s 
threshold by 2.

Moment / Experience

1

FIT

1 AWA

1 FIT

Foragers are naturally curious, so many become
explorers, scouting and trailblazing the rarely trodden
wilderness. Others find unexplored wilderness of a
different kind, braving an entirely new discipline.

Familiar Ground

Local Fare

Moment / Experience / Nature

2

FIT

2 AWA

2 FIT

Gear / Tool / Weapon

Puffercrawler Spores

FIT + : Strike [2] out with your

Response: After you add  to a
being with the attached gear, exhaust
that being and attach this card to it.

1

FOC

The attached being gains the flora
trait.

1 SPI

1 FOC

Attachment / Nature

Nature’s Abundance

Moment / Experience / Nature

Attach to a feature.

0

2

FOC

2 SPI

2 FOC

Gear / Food

1

SPI

Each Ranger may add 1 to a flora to
soothe 1 fatigue and gain 1 energy
of any type. When you add  to a
flora in this way, you may not exceed
its  threshold.

Attached feature gains the flora trait.

herbs

2

AWA

Attach to any Ranger’s equipped
gear.

gardening tool to add 1 to a being
for every 2 effort. If you fail, suffer 1
injury.

Loose-leaf Tea Kit

Attachment / Nature

SPI + : Tend to the local plants to
add or remove  from a flora equal to
your effort.

Secret Garden

1

AWA

Response: When a Ranger performs
a test, they may add 1 to a flora to
dodge each being in the same area
as that flora.

Add 1 to a flora to add 3 to a trail.

Carbonforged Trowel

1

AWA

Static Sifter

Gear / Tool / Food

2

SPI

Response: After you add 1 or more
 to a flora, you may add 1 herb to
this gear.

Response: After you add 1 or more
 to a flora, you may add 1 vittle to
this gear.

Exhaust (use 1 herb): Choose a
Ranger. That Ranger gains 1 energy
of any type.

Exhaust (use 1 vittle): Choose
a Ranger. That Ranger soothes 2
fatigue.

0

vittles

35

BACKGROUND: SHEPHERD
In your early life, you tended a flock of ironwool sheep
in the rolling meadows of the southwestern Valley. You
have a natural affinity for animals both tame and wild.
Shepherd cards typically affect beings and can help you
interact with and pacify predators in non-violent ways.

The Valley’s shepherds tend the flocks of ironwool sheep
that roam the grassy hills near the village of Meadow.
The shepherding tradition among the Valley Dwellers
is long and storied. Long before they settled the Valley,
they tended ironwool sheep.

1 SPI

LIFE AS A SHEPHERD
Healing Touch

Moment / Skill / Aid

Choose one:
Discard 1 from a being to add 3
to it.

Moment / Wisdom

0

AWA

Heal 1 injury from a Ranger.

1 SPI

1 AWA

Years spent in solitude provides one with a considerable
amount of time to contemplate the nature of existence.
As such, regardless of their chosen path, shepherds
have considered all options, and thus apply themselves
fully to their chosen discipline.

One Eye Open

1

SPI

Calming Presence

Attachment / Skill

Response: When you rest, exhaust
up to one being for each AWA in
your energy pool.

1

SPI

Attach to a predator.
Attached card loses the predator
trait.

Riri the Sparrow Hawk

Being / Companion / Avian

2

AWA

2 SPI

2 AWA

Response: Before a challenge effect
on the attached card would resolve,
you may discard 2 from it to cancel
the effect.

Oru the Sheep Dog

Being / Companion / Mammal / Expert

Friendly. Persistent. Unique.

AWA + : Survey the way

1 FIT

ahead to scout path cards
equal to your effort, then draw
1 path card.

A Gentle Nudge

Moment / Experience

Friendly. Persistent. Unique.
Exhaust: Move a being and
add 2 to it.

1
1

1

FIT

FIT + : Pet your canine

companion to ready this being
and soothe 1 fatigue.

1 FOC

Exhaust: Add 1 to a being in
the same area as this companion.

2

SPI

Paratrepsis Whistle

Gear / Tool / Aid

2
3

1

FOC

Exhaust (use 1 call): When a Ranger
would suffer an injury by a predator
or  would be added to a being,
cancel that effect.

Each Ranger may discard 1 from a
being within reach of them to move
that being.

3

Homeward Bound

Moment / Experience

2

FIT

Move all  from a being to a feature.

36

2 FOC

2 FIT

calls

A Deeper Understanding

Moment / Wisdom

2

FOC

Choose a being. Move  from the
chosen being to each other being or
feature in play, up to 1 per card.

BACKGROUND: TRAVELER
Your early life was spent walking the footpaths of the
Valley from village to village, or even journeying outside
of it. As such, you feel most at home when you’re on the
move. Traveler cards revolve primarily around making
the most of moment cards.

The Valley’s travelers are typically responsible for
transporting goods and materials between villages
and for disseminating important information to those
they encounter. Most Valley Dwellers don’t travel far
beyond their home village, so it’s the travelers who
help the wider community remain connected.

1 FOC

LIFE AS A TRAVELER
Reverb Locket

1

AWA

2

Exhaust (use 1 echo): Play the
attached moment as if it were in your
hand. It remains attached to this gear
instead of being discarded.

Echoes

1 FOC

1 AWA

Moment / Skill

1

FOC

When you play this gear, attach a
moment to it from your hand.

Given their often social nature, some travelers are
drawn toward the life of a conciliator. Many others
become explorers, or even shapers, wandering new
paths of both conspicuousness and experience.

Eagle Eye

Gear / Tech / Expert

Perfect Recall

Moment / Skill

Scout 3 path cards, then draw 1 path
card.

X

FOC

Play a moment from your discard pile
without paying its energy cost (X is
equal to the chosen moment’s cost).

Paths We’ve Roamed Before

Moment / Experience

2

AWA

2 FOC

2 AWA

This card can be played at the time
specified on the chosen moment.

Adaptable Multitool

Gear / Tool / Tech

2

FOC

Exhaust (use 1 charge): Spend 1
energy to gain 1 energy of any type.

Choose up to 4 total moments or
attributes from any number of Ranger
discards. Place the chosen cards
facedown on the top of their Ranger’s
fatigue stack.

3

Strider

1 SPI

1 FIT

charges

Attribute / Innate

Ironwool Boots

Gear / Clothing

Trail Mix

Gear / Food / Aid

Unique.
Response: After you play a moment,
soothe 1 fatigue.

2

FIT

2 SPI

2 FIT

You can only commit this attribute
when interacting with a trail.

Meditation Pillow

Gear / Aid

2

2

SPI

FOC +  (use 1 session): Meditate
on your journey to shuffle a number
of cards from your fatigue stack into
your Ranger deck equal to your
effort.

Exhaust (use 1 morsel): Choose a
Ranger. That Ranger soothes fatigue
equal to the number of FIT in their
energy pool.

morsels

1

SPI

3

sessions

37

SPECIALTY: ARTIFICER
Part engineer, part visionary artist, artificers are master
craftspeople dedicated to the pursuit of knowledge. You
are a student of the technology of the past, but you are
also an innovator, forging the path with experimental
technologies of the current age. Appropriately, artificer
cards are primarily gear and attachments, and are
typically a cut above those found elsewhere.

LIFE AS AN ARTIFICER
The Valley’s artificers are responsible for inventing
and crafting new technologies, then making them
available to their community. They also work to improve
infrastructure like power generators and water systems.
To become an artificer, one must become an apprentice,
and the Valley’s greatest artificers have all apprenticed
with Elder Mora Orlin of Spire. From her they learn how
to operate the Carbon Forge and conjure anything

from simple tools to construction materials to complex
devices that test the limits of the imagination.
Although artificers spend much of their time in the
workshop, they spend an equal amount of time in the
wild, testing their creations. The artificer Ben Amon,
for example, who designed and constructed the
mechanized glider known as the Swift, spends many
a day flying the remarkable machine from one side of
the Valley to the other. Each flight gives him insight
into how he might improve the Swift’s performance and
range, and as he’s fond of saying, “it’s a lot of fun.”
Artificers who join the Rangers gain access to the
well-equipped workshops of Lone Tree Station. They’re
also encouraged more than most to delve into any
ruins they discover while on patrol. Hidden within the
ruins, it’s not unusual to find ancient pieces of Estian
technology, preserved for centuries.

Masterful Engineer

38

Exceptional Tinkerer

Role

Role

Exhaust: Ready a tech.

Exhaust: Spend 1 energy to add 1
token to a tech.

Gear / Book / Tech

1

AWA

1 FOC

1 AWA

Ferinodex

Infusion Canteen

Gear / Tool / Tech

Exhaust (use 1 profile): When a
Ranger performs an Avoid test,
commit 1 effort.

When you play this gear, choose an
aspect (you may place a spare energy
token here as a reminder).

4

3

Attachment / Tool / Tech

2

AWA

Memorill Sketchpad

Gear / Book / Tech

Use 1 length: When the attached
predator would ready, it remains
exhausted.

FIT + : Lead the animal to move
the attached predator.

0

Gear / Tech

1

AWA

Memlev Trekking Poles

Response: After you succeed at an
Avoid test, add 1 charge to this gear.

1

FIT

1 SPI

1 FIT

charges

Attachment / Tool

A Stone in the River

Moment / Wisdom

The attached card gains the trail trait.

2

FIT

2 SPI

2 FIT

Response: When 1 or more  is
added to the attached trail, increase
the number of  added by 1.

Gear / Clothing / Tech

Camoweave Cloak

Gear / Clothing / Tech

3 FIT

Wrist-mounted Darter

FIT +  (use 1 charge): Climb the
obstructing terrain with the agility
of a spider to move your  to an
obstacle.

Gear / Tech / Weapon

2

FIT

FOC +  (use 1 dart): Shoot one
of the featherlight darts to add  to
a being equal to your effort. Whether
you succeed or fail, dodge all cards
between you and that being.

3

darts

3

charges

3 SPI

2

2

SPI

Use 1 charge: When you would
suffer 1 or more fatigue from a path
card, reduce the fatigue suffered
to 0.

During your turn, you may treat
obstacles as if they did not have the
obstacle keyword.

charges

1

SPI

Response: After you succeed at
an Avoid test, exhaust 1 additional
being.

Attach to a location or feature.

Spiderpad Gloves

2

FOC

3

charges

Trail Markers

Gear / Tool / Tech

Exhaust (use 1 charge): When you
perform a Traverse test, use FOC
instead of FIT.

Discard this gear from play to
exhaust beings equal to the number
of charges on this gear.

1

Use 1 inkrill: When a Ranger
interacts with a feature, commit 1
effort.

inkrills

3 FOC

3 AWA

lengths

Dayhowler

2

FOC

Response: After a path card is
cleared, add 1 inkrill to this gear.

Attach to a predator.

3

Exhaust (use 1 sip): Gain 1 energy
matching the chosen aspect.

sips

2 FOC

2 AWA

profiles

Carbonforged Cable

1

FOC

Thoroughly Prepared

Moment / Experience

1

SPI

Response: When a Ranger would
suffer 1 or more fatigue, they soothe
that amount of fatigue instead.

39

SPECIALTY: CONCILIATOR
Even before you joined the Rangers, you were
dedicated to helping the communities of the Valley,
aiding anyone in need in matters great and small. As
a conciliator, you are a natural mediator and protector
and share a deep connection with other Valley Dwellers,
having spent many years in their company. Conciliator
cards specialize in connecting with the villagers,
protecting them from predators, and navigating the
habited areas of the Valley.

LIFE AS A CONCILIATOR
Sometimes, even in a place as idyllic as the Valley, there
are grievances, and sometimes those grievances cannot
be solved without the help of an impartial mediator,
known as a conciliator. The conciliators of the Valley are
responsible for maintaining peace in their communities
and facilitating communication between its people.

Conciliators work side-by-side with the Elders, heeding
their wisdom and applying it as need arises. Typically,
a conciliator will meet with the Elders weekly to discuss
any notable events within the community and to
strategize on how to improve harmony and assist any
villager who might be in distress.
Conciliators also serve as protectors. If a predator is
spotted near the village, they will go out to meet it—
either to peacefully encourage it to seek new hunting
grounds or to give it a solid whack with a thumper. Both
methods have proven equally effective.
Conciliators who join the Rangers come well-equipped,
as they already have years of experience providing aid
to those in need.

Voice of the Elders

40

Guardian

Role

Role

Exhaust: Spend 1 energy to add 1
token to an aid card.

Exhaust: Reduce a being’s presence
to 0 until the end of the turn.

Attachment / Experience / Aid

1

AWA

1 FOC

1 AWA

Surveyed Land

Intention Translator

Gear / Tech / Aid

Exhaust (use 1 charge): When a
Ranger performs a Connect test,
commit 1 effort.

Attach to a feature.
Reduce the attached feature’s
presence by 1 for each marker on this
attachment.

1

3

charges

Tranquilisnare

Attachment / Aid

2

AWA

2 FOC

marker

2 AWA

1

FOC

Safeguard

Moment / Experience

0

FOC

Response: When a Ranger would
suffer an injury or  would be added
to a being, cancel that effect. Suffer
1 injury.

Attach to a being.
Reduce the attached being’s
presence by 1 for each snare on this
attachment.

1

One With Nature

Moment / Wisdom

3

AWA

3 FOC

3 AWA

snare

Nidocyte Sentinel

Attachment / Tech / Aid

Reduce the presence of each card
in play to 0 until the end of the next
turn.

3

FOC

Attach to a being.
Use 1 alarm: Before a challenge
effect on the attached being would
resolve, cancel that effect.

2

Follow in Footsteps

Moment / Skill

1

FIT

1 SPI

1 FIT

alarms

Ancestral Teachings

Orlin Thumper

Gear / Tech / Weapon

1

FIT

1

SPI

Exhaust a being. Then add  to
that being equal to the number of
exhausted beings within reach.

2 SPI

2 FIT

Response: After you succeed at a
Connect test, add  to a feature
equal to your effort. This is in
addition to the test’s standard effect.

Moment / Wisdom

Pokodo the Ferret

FIT +  (use 1 pulse): Strike [2]
with a pulse of kinetic energy to add
1 to a being and exhaust it. If you
fail, discard 1 from that being; if you
cannot, it fatigues you instead.

Being / Companion / Mammal

2

SPI

Friendly. Persistent. Unique.
Exhaust: Discard 1 from this
being to add 1 token to an Aid
card and 2 to another being.

3

1
1

Tracked

Attachment / Skill / Aid

3

FIT

Attach to a being.
Response: After a challenge effect
on the attached being resolves, add
1 track.

3

tracks

Use 1 track: When a Ranger
performs a test, commit 1 effort.

3 SPI

3 FIT

pulses

A Dear Friend

Attachment / Experience / Expert

1

SPI

Search the path deck and discard for
a human and put them into play with
this card attached.
Response: After the attached human
is cleared, move the  that were
on it to any number of other beings,
divided as you choose.

41

SPECIALTY: EXPLORER
The people of the Valley are natural explorers, but you
have an affinity and aptitude for exploration that has
made you an expert of the wilds. The Valley cannot
keep secrets from you for long. You’ve spent many
years traversing the uncharted wilderness in search of
resources both natural and otherwise for the people
of the Valley. You are adept at charting new paths and
overcoming any obstacle set before you. Explorer cards
center around quickly placing progress on features and
locations, scouting the path deck, and moving efficiently
along the paths of the Valley map.

LIFE AS AN EXPLORER
The Valley’s explorers are responsible for taking on any
task that requires someone to strike off into the
wilderness. Straying too far from the village
is not always a safe or advisable course

of action for your average Valley Dweller to pursue, but
it must be done. The Valley itself would not have been
discovered had it not been for an explorer, and it was
explorers who drafted the first maps of the Valley, which
led to the settling of Branch, White Sky, Meadow, and
Tumbledown in the years that followed.
Explorers blazed the most heavily trafficked trails in the
Valley, and they’re continually on the lookout for more
efficient routes waiting to be discovered.
Explorers who join the Rangers are encouraged to
continue to do what they love. The more that the
Rangers know of what exists beyond the borders of
civilization, the better they can ensure the well-being of
those they’ve sworn to protect.

Undaunted Seeker

42

Peerless Pathfinder

Role

Role

Exhaust: When you perform a test,
dodge 1 card.

Exhaust: Move your  to a feature.
That feature fatigues you.

Moment / Skill

1

AWA

1 FOC

1 AWA

A Leaf in the Breeze

Phonoscopic Headset

Hydrolens Goggles

Gear / Clothing / Tech

2

AWA

Field Journal

Gear / Book

AWA +  (use 1 drop): Clarify
your view of the environment
around you to scout path cards equal
to your effort, then draw 1 path card.

3

0

Share in the Valley’s Secrets

Moment / Wisdom

3

AWA

3 FOC

3 AWA

Use 1 entry: When a Ranger
interacts with a feature, commit 1
effort.

entries

Hidden Trail

Gear / Tech

1

FIT

1 SPI

Exhaust each obstacle. Suffer fatigue
equal to the number of obstacles
exhausted this way.

1 FIT

1

FOC

Response: When you rest, add
entries equal to the number of FOC
in your energy pool.

drops

Boundary Sensor

1

FOC

Exhaust: When a Ranger scouts,
increase the number of cards scouted
by 1.

2 FOC

2 AWA

Response: When you Traverse,
dodge up to 3 cards.

Gear / Clothing / Tech

Walk With Me

Exhaust (use 1 sensor): When a
Ranger performs a Traverse test,
commit 1 effort.

Feature / Trail

3

FOC

Response: When you travel,
if this trail is attached to the
location, travel to a location
up to two paths away. Use the
terrain of the second path when
building the path deck.

0

Clear : Attach this trail to the
location.

3

Moment / Experience

1

SPI

Response: After you succeed at a
Traverse test, add  to a being equal
to your effort. This is in addition to
the test’s standard effect.

4

Orlin Hiking Stave

Gear / Tool / Tech / Weapon

2

FIT

2 SPI

2 FIT

sensors

Breathe Into It

Exhaust (use 1 stride): Add 1 to
a trail.

3

Moment / Skill

2

SPI

Response: When you perform a
test, discard any number of cards
from your fatigue stack to commit 1
effort to that test for every 2 cards
discarded this way.

FIT + : Strike [2] out with your
walking implement to add 1 to a
being for every 2 effort. If you fail,
suffer 1 injury.

Afforded by Nature

Moment / Experience / Weapon

3

FIT

Discard any number of  from a trail
to add an equal number of  to a
being.

3 SPI

3 FIT

strides

Cradled by the Earth

Moment / Wisdom

3

SPI

Choose a trail. Soothe fatigue equal
to the number of  on that trail.
This fatigue may be divided as you
choose between all Rangers.

43

SPECIALTY: SHAPER
Many years ago, you walked the perilous stair to the
monastery at the top of Blind Peak where, through
decades of study and practice in the Floating Tower,
you learned to focus your intent and alter reality
through the use of a conduit, a wonder of modern
technology, inoperable by any but the most disciplined
and self-aware. Shaper cards require you to include
a special piece of gear called a conduit in your deck.
With it, they make use of powerful abilities that can
manipulate parts of the game system that are usually
inaccessible to others.

LIFE AS A SHAPER
Shapers hold a unique place in the community. All
shapers have studied at the monastery atop Blind
Peak, but very few leave. Those who do often become
hermits, living in relative solitude in remote and

sometimes inhospitable locations, pondering the
greater mysteries of the universe and mindfully shaping
the circumstances of their lives.
The few who rejoin their communities are held in high
esteem, for a shaper must display tremendous discipline
and wisdom to be entrusted with the power to alter the
very fabric of reality, so they often serve as councilors to
conciliators and Elders alike, providing unique insight.
On occasion, groups of shapers will descend from the
monastery to perform amazing feats that take years to
complete—like shaping dolewood trees into the village
of Branch or teasing stone from the Earth to create
Stoneweaver Bridge.
It is rare for a shaper to join the Rangers, but those who
do are some of the most individually capable humans in
the Valley.

Prodigy of the Floating Tower
Role

44

Exhaust: Choose a manifestation in
your discard, and add it to your hand.

Adherent of the First Ideal
Role

Exhaust: Scout 1 challenge card.

Attachment / Manifestation / Nature

1

AWA

1 SPI

1 AWA

Root Snare

Harmonize

Manifestation.

Manifestation.

Attach to a feature, and add 2 to it.

Attach to a being within reach of
any Ranger.

Moment / Manifestation / Weapon

0

AWA

Seen Through Cycles

Manifestation. (To play a manifestation, discard 1 token from a
conduit.)

1

3

AWA

Scepter of Harmony

Conduit. Setup.
Response: After you perform a test
in which no challenge effects were
resolved, add 1 song to this conduit.

Exhaust (use X glints): Scout X path
cards.

1

Moment / Manifestation

1

FIT

Throng of Life

Moment / Manifestation

2

FIT

Response: When a Ranger reveals a
challenge card during a test, choose
which modifier to use from that card.
Then choose an additional challenge
icon to resolve for this test.

2 FOC

2 FIT

Moment / Manifestation

Novice Lens

Gear / Tech

Response: When you rest, if you
have 1 or more FOC in your energy
pool, scout 1 challenge card.

1

3

FIT

3 FOC

3 FIT

Add 1 to each feature and location.
Then you may redistribute any
number of  between them.

strides

2

FOC

Response: After you perform a test
in which you committed 1 or more
manifestations, gain 1 FOC.

Manifestation. (To play a manifestation, discard 1 token from a
conduit.)

Gear / Conduit / Expert

1

FOC

Manifestation (To play a manifestation, discard 1 token from a
conduit.)

Response: When drawing challenge
cards during a test, draw and discard
challenge cards until you draw one
with a +1 in the used aspect. Use
that challenge card for this test, and
suffer fatigue equal the number of
cards discarded this way.

Staff of the Wanderer

Exhaust (use X songs): Add X to
a being.

songs

Manifestation.

Shape the Earth

3

SPI

Response: After the challenge
deck is shuffled, add 1 glint to this
conduit.

1 FOC

1 FIT

Gear / Conduit / Expert

Conduit. Setup.

glints

What Should Never Be

SPI

Choose a being in play, and shuffle it
into the path deck. Then search the
path deck and discard for a being
and put it into play.

3 SPI

3 AWA

Gear / Conduit / Expert

2

Moment / Manifestation

Manifestation. (To play a manifestation, discard 1 token from a
conduit.)

AWA + : Strike with a whirling
coil of wind and water to add  to
a being equal to your effort. Then
exhaust that being.

Stave of the Sun

SPI

Response: After a challenge effect
on the attached being resolves, the
Ranger that played this card gains 1
energy of any type.

2 SPI

2 AWA

Response: When a Ranger performs
a test, they may discard 1 or more 
from the attached feature to dodge
an equal number of cards in the
same area.

Sky Whip

1

Attachment / Manifestation

Rod of the Clouds

Gear / Conduit / Expert

3

FOC

Conduit. Setup.

Conduit. Setup.

Response: After you succeed at a
Traverse test, add 1 stride to this
conduit.

Response: Before you draw a
challenge card, name a challenge
icon; if that icon is on the drawn card,
add 1 vision to this conduit.

Exhaust (use X strides): Add X to
a trail.

1

visions

Exhaust (use X visions): Scout X
Ranger cards.

45

PERSONALITY
A Ranger’s personality helps determine the way in which
they interact with the world around them. As you play,
you might ask yourself, “What would my Ranger do
in this situation?” This may be different than what you
might do if you were in that situation. Making decisions
based on your Ranger’s personality can be a lot of fun if
you enjoy roleplaying.
Each card in the personality set is an attribute, which
means they can only be discarded for their approach

46

icons during tests. You can use personality cards to help
balance out the mix of approach icons in your deck, but
you can just as easily use them to make your Ranger
even better at the things they’re already good at.
If you’d like to lean into the roleplaying opportunities of
the game, you can choose your personality cards based
purely on theme. Choosing a card simply because you
like the title, or because you like the accompanying
narrative text, is a totally valid approach.

INDEX
A
active........................................17, 22
after................................................23
along the way.............................9, 12
Ambush..........................................26
approach icon. ...............................16
arrival setup....................................15
Artificer.....................................33, 38
Artisan......................................33, 34
aspect.............................................32
attach. ............................................22
attachment.....................................13
attribute. ........................................13
Awareness......................................32

B
background....................................33
before.............................................23
being........................................12, 13

C
camp. .............................................14
ending the day............................21
Campaign.......................................28
campaign guide entry..12, 15, 22, 28
challenge deck...............................17
challenge effect..............................17
clear. ..............................................18
collection........................................28
commit...........................................16
common test..................................12
Conciliator................................33, 40
Conduit. .........................................26

D
day. ............................................7, 29
ending the day............................21
discard............................................22
Disconnected.................................26
displaced........................................31
dodge. ...........................................22

E
effort...............................................16
energy............................................13
entry.............................12, 15, 22, 28
equip value. ...................................13
exhaust...........................................22
Explorer....................................33, 42

F
facedown........................................22
faceup. ...........................................22
fail. .................................................17

fatigue............................................20
ending the day............................21
fatigues you....................................20
Fatiguing........................................26
feature......................................12, 13
Fitness............................................32
Focus..............................................32
Forager.....................................33, 35
Friendly. .........................................26

G
gear................................................13
Grassland. ......................................15

H
harm...............................................18

I
injury. .............................................23
ending the day............................21
in play.............................................23
interact...........................................12

K
keyword..........................................26

L
Lakeshore.......................................15
lead Ranger....................................10

M
malady............................................31
Manifestation. ................................26
map................................................14
mission......................................24, 30
moment..........................................13
Mountain Pass................................15
move. .............................................23
mulligan. ........................................10

N
notable event.................................29

O
objective. .......................................30
Obstacle.........................................27
Old-Growth....................................15
outside interest...............................33

P
path................................................14
path card..................................12, 24
path deck. ......................................15
Persistent........................................27
personality................................32, 46
pivotal location...............................15

play. ...............................................13
player area........................................9
progress. ........................................18
progress threshold
on locations. ...............................14

R
Ranger card anatomy.....................25
Ranger card....................................32
Ranger token..................................18
Ravine.............................................15
ready...............................................22
refresh. ...........................................15
reshuffle. ........................................17
response.........................................13
rest. ................................................13
reward. ...........................................31
River. ..............................................15
role.................................................33
round..............................................12

S
scout...............................................23
search.............................................23
setup...............................................10
Setup..............................................27
Shaper......................................33, 44
Shepherd..................................33, 36
soothe. ...........................................20
specialty. ........................................33
Spirit...............................................32
succeed..........................................17
surroundings. ...................................9
Swamp. ..........................................15

T
terrain.............................................15
test. ................................................16
threshold........................................18
timing.............................................23
token..............................................13
tracking sheet.................................29
travel. .............................................14
Traveler.....................................33, 37
turn.................................................12

U
Unique............................................27
use..................................................13

W
weather. .........................................30
when...............................................23
within reach................................9, 12
Woods............................................15

47

QUICK REFERENCE
ICONS

ROUND STRUCTURE
page 12

ASPECTS

APPROACHES

1. PATH CARDS

AWA Awareness
FOC Focus
FIT Fitness
SPI Spirit

 Connection
 Conflict
 Exploration
 Reason

Each Ranger draws a path card.

RULES

CHALLENGE EFFECTS

page 32

page 16

page 17

 Reshuffle
page 17

 Per Ranger
page 23

 Guide Entry

 Sun
 Mountain
 Crest

page 28

 Conditional
page 17

2. RANGER TURNS
Rangers take turns until they have all rested. On a
turn, each Ranger does one of the following:
• Play a card
• Perform a test
• Rest

3. TRAVEL
If the location has progress equal to or exceeding its
threshold, you may travel. If you do, clear the play
area, choose a new location, and assemble the path
deck for the new location.

4. REFRESH

TOKENS
page 18

 Progress
 Harm
 Ranger Token

REMINDERS
• When a card refers to “within reach,” it is referring
to within reach of the Ranger resolving the effect
unless otherwise specified.
• When you suffer an injury, discard all cards in your
fatigue stack.
• During the refresh phase, suffer one fatigue for
each injury you have.
• If there is more than one Ranger who hasn’t
rested this round, you must exhaust your role if
you want to take a second turn in a row.
• Each other Ranger token (apart from your own)
on a card you are interacting with commits one
additional effort to your test.
• Exhausted cards cannot fatigue you.
• When part of an ability cannot be resolved,
resolve as much of the ability as you can (unless it
follows a  icon).

Suffer 1 fatigue for each injury. Draw 1 Ranger card
and regain all energy. Ready all cards.

TESTS
page 16

1. CHOOSE TEST
Select the test to perform, and each card between
you and your target fatigues you.

2. COMMIT EFFORT
Commit energy, approach icons, and effort from
other effects to the test.

3. APPLY MODIFIERS
Draw a challenge card. Apply its modifier and any
other modifiers to your effort.

4. DETERMINE SUCCESS
If your effort is equal to or greater than the test’s
difficulty, you succeed. Resolve the effects of the test.

5. RESOLVE CHALLENGE EFFECTS
Resolve each challenge effect matching the icon on
the drawn challenge card.

48
©2024 Earthborne Games LLC. P.O. Box 9092, St. Paul, MN, 55109. Earthborne Games and Earthborne Rangers, including logos and characters, are property of Earthborne Games.
The Earthborne logo is a registered trademark of Earthborne Games. All rights reserved.

